All right. So, hey everyone, welcome
back. Welcome back to another exciting
video. And in this particular video, I
have something very exciting for you.
So, in this particular video, I want to
showcase a product which is really
amazing. And for a white coder like me,
this particular product is a goldmine.
And AI can actually do a lot of stuff.
You can use cloud code, you can use code
X, and a lot of more tools.
That becomes a bottleneck. That is the
UI design.
I have built Whisper type. I have built
the Skyping. And all the more so the
products are in the line. And AI is able
to do all the functionality, but one
thing where I struggle a lot is
basically the design. What design about
that that design is not production
grade, not polished. And that is where
this particular product comes into the
picture. So, here I want to show you
this particular product that is Flow
step. And let me show you the demo,
okay? So, Flow step basically that I
will ask you to leave my UI banana. It
generates a UI. It generates production
grade grade applications of for UI. So,
you can see that you have my best good
demos. And this is the landing page of
this particular website. And if you see
that actually what you can do is you can
have collaborations. You can build the
UIs with the help of AI. So, you can cut
there. Let's quickly jump into the
application. So, many already have an
account set up curly hair. This is the
application. So, let's say make
application banana chateau. This is
something I really want to build for
myself. That is a fitness tracking with
home.
To maybe recently could take fitness
tracking up banana that made could be
personal use curly. And as you know the
AI does the bare minimum UI. Bare
minimum. What else is the application
which allows that I would there is no
use of it. So, I have written a very
simple prompt. And you can even attach
references if you want to. But right now
I don't want to attach any reference.
But I make polish application the
screenshots below and let's just click
on the generate. So, what it will do is
it will basically analyze what I have
said it and everything. So, it's going
to analyze and based on that it is going
to build a mobile application for me.
So, you have to put my prompt there
there up to get them to wait.
So, you can see the animation going on
here. How well the animations are going
and I'll be immediately generate color
and this is actually iOS mobile using a
green theme. Okay, so I really like
green color. Everyone knows I like green
color and let's just wait for a while
and it's going to generate the theme and
it is generating something.
Okay, pretty cool.
The AI is actually doing the UI in front
of me. Okay.
Pretty awesome, right? I mean it not
fast I am pretty awesome. I got two
screens. Let's generate more screens.
Okay,
generate okay, generate a timer screen
where users can choose a workout. Okay,
two users can choose a workout and then
start timer start and stop the timer.
Okay. I want a screen to generate a
workout like that and I can basically do
the start and stop thing. Okay, so very
simple prompt and basic English there
let's just wait for a while.
So, you can see already the design can I
start getting there. So, this is where
it is generating. Your design is taking
shape. Okay, thank you so much.
And you can see that I got a new brand
new screen with the same theme. So, you
have to get my workouts and that is
running strength cycling and all we have
and this is basically the timer thing.
Okay, I really like how fast this is
this is not a fast fast forwarded video.
You can see I'm talking to you. This is
not at all a fast forwarded video.
And pretty good. I mean, this is
definitely good. I but I think so this
is definitely good. And then at the last
generate, okay?
A detailed detailed
analytics
analytics screen
for me, okay? For me and it's going to
be a couple of screens here
and I have to be able to add my friends
and we can have a leaderboard kind of a
thing that I can do active here. You
know, accountability thing. So I'm going
to do this one more time to get to me
while this is generating. So also do
three to four screens where I
where I can, okay, invite, let me just
do it like this way. Where I can
invite my friends and see the
leaderboard.
So this is basically what I want, okay?
So let's just wait for a while. Oh, this
is I I really like this. I really like
this particular thing, okay?
I can let us
wait for this particular thing to
finish. You can see that we are getting
a detailed screen on the analytics part.
And I really love the UI, okay? And
let's just wait for a while putting
pieces together. That's great.
So you just prompt and you just get
everything, right? And I think I can
select the edit movie map to the camera.
So let's just I'm just waiting for it to
finish, okay? That's that's pretty
awesome. Okay, it's a long screen. You
can see we have calorie crusher, we have
personal best
this particular thing. And at the end I
can just give it one more prompt. This
is going to be my last prompt because I
can see already all the screens are
looking at you here.
I think I will wait and let's just wait
for a while. So four screens it is
generating for me and just just look at
the speed. This speed is going to I mean
it's really awesome speed, okay?
So we going to have four screens getting
quickly it's going to generate this
video is not at all fast forwarded. I'm
really impressed. Personally, I'm really
impressed because I've been making a
custom my clothes to wipe code to get it
up. But I got the design part sorted to
my designs is to generate code I can
give my clothes that hey, you have to
build this particular design. So let me
tell you some more advanced features
also. So let me just skip the video
ahead.
So you can see that this is what it has
generated, right? So you have to
generate a leader board of screen five.
Then we have the invite. We have your
personal profile and here. So this is
basically how you can generate so
quickly these many screens for a fitness
application. I make a custom see. I can
even edit these screens to get a sunny
kiss of AI. I can choose them. I can
edit. I can export it to a figma. I can
use the edit and you have to make a pass
code prompts and for example switch to
dark make a dark mode make it pretty try
a different layout. For example, what I
can do is create an error state. Okay,
they come get this a good version of my
day.
So let's say
you personally need a fitness screen. So
I can just say edit. And we're going to
get a custom error state to get other
let's say for some reason our server
down. Let's say right. So what I can do
is I can basically say that other error
or I do okay. So let's see how the error
part looks. So many of you have seen the
select here the four core and if server
is down what should the error state
looks like. So you can see it's going to
generate that. And when you select
something you can see all the properties
with generated code. I mean if you see
right here you have a code generation as
well. I've got to say copy that
the code always remains in sync.
I'm going to copy code right this is my
screen. You can see the full react code
is in front of me. This is my copy code
of my cloud code is a custom second is
copy the code from here and I can just
give it to the cloud and cloud is going
to generate that.
Pretty pretty amazing. So you can see
this is the error screen and yeah really
clean actually. So click it again I got
to help you figma with you. You can just
export it to a code. You can export it
to a figma. You can even download it as
a PNG and I got to go to my export to
get my figma I have to of course connect
my figma so I'm going to be figma
connect me but I get a figma out of it
and then I can even connect my cloud to
the figma and
let's go generate
so this is the future of actually how
you design AI applications right and
honestly
I just love this product
I'm going to use this a lot so this was
your flow steps so all the links will be
available in the description below and
do let me know what do you think about
this product and I got to go be
application builder a lot of times
just give it a shot and you will be
amazed okay and thank you so much flow
step for sponsoring this video apart
from the sponsorship I really like your
product so thank you so much for this
amazing product all the relevant links
up coming to description
so check flow step go so with that let's
end this video let me know your thoughts
below in the comment section and video
like and subscribe to go
with the flow
until then bye-bye and take care