Vercel got hacked. So, recently there
was a security incident at Vercel and
this particular blog post tells what
exactly happened. So, this is the
official blog post by Vercel which
states that there was a security
incident on April 26th and if we go down
that there is this interesting thing
that we have identified a security
incident that involved unauthorized
access to internal Vercel systems.
And we go into the what we know, you can
understand what really happened. This
incident originated with compromise of
Context AI, a third-party AI tool used
by Vercel employee. So, Vercel guy can
play was using this third-party tool
that is known as Context AI.
And with this particular tool to hack
what
Google Workspace got access media. The
attacker used that access to take over
employees Vercel Google Workspace
account. So, risky.
Access Miller and only environment
variables to sensitive native. Do
encrypted native.
So, if you can see that which enabled
them to gain to access of some Vercel
environment and environment variables
that were not marked as sensitive. So,
see just using a third-party tool into
your ecosystem can do these hazard. But
I will be a two particular uh problem is
going to be solved again. And also
Vercel team has said that could be NPM
package on the device to compromise
native. Everything is good. And now to
take more security measures, Vercel team
has made this sensitive thing as
mandatory as a default thing.
You have to mark your environment
variables as sensitive by default, but
you can like choose to not mark them as
sensitive. And you have a sub impact
native and you have an impact on
which subset of customers here to impact
with you don't need non-sensitive
environment variables to use native. And
Vercel the personally on to email but I
do have that your accounts were
compromised. So, as a best practice of
my environment variables to change on to
rotate the of the secrets. Yeah.
So, this is initially and the all thing
goes to this particular third-party
tool. Employee used to hack what just
because of Vercel internal system got
access hackers got it. So, that's how
the chain goes and there was no supply
chain attack. There was no NPM packages
thing. So, thankfully that got saved and
that's what happened in the Vercel's
ecosystem.