Hey there everyone, Hesh here and
welcome to another awesome video where
we are going to learn about the
engineering side of the stuff. Let me
remind you this video is not for
somebody who has been working in the
production for a while and have pushed
like countless application in the
production or have made its code
available in the production. This video
is focused on beginners who are
absolutely new to the programming world
and have learned how to build the
application maybe decent to-dos and now
you're looking forward that my
application should say the daylight of
the wild internet. Now when you put your
application into the internet there are
some things which you need to be caution
about. Your application might see a
spike of the load or your application
might not work in the server. So what
all you can do you will learn five
awesome strategies as well as five
awesome tips to work on with this. Now
apart from this uh make sure that you
also take a notebook and a pen and paper
something like that. I will introduce
you to so many new terms that will help
you to get closer in the production side
how it's being done in the real world in
the industries right now. It's going to
be a fantastic video. Make sure you hit
that subscribe button and I'll bring
more such awesome videos. There is so
many of the tech that I'm going to
discuss in this video and this makes me
happy. I love to geek out on the techs
and the softwares that we use daily but
a lot of people don't even are aware of
it makes me super happy. So hit that
subscribe and let me take you onto the
screen and let's uh see that what we are
going to talk about a lot that we have
to do. Uh we'll be visiting a lot of
websites a lot of documentation and
stuff. So handle the peak loads. You
might be always be afraid of this handle
peak load. But first of all, what you
need to be a uh taking care of this is
do not worry. That's the first thing. It
is okay that applications goes down. It
is okay when the first time you're
putting your application on the
internet. It might see the traffic spike
and it might go down. That's completely
okay. That's completely normal as a
fresher. So don't worry about that. Get
that server. Make sure that application
is being served by you by using
engineext, VPS, EC2 machine, whatever
that is, it needs to be done. So step
one is do not worry about. Now if you
have built a decent application, maybe
some kind of a notes app or something uh
let's just say notes app is really good
notes and it also gives you a kind of a
a planner planner for exam. So you have
all the notes as well as planner for
exam. And this is the application that
you have built which obviously is going
to go decently viral in your college.
And now you want to see that what can go
potentially wrong. Now one of the common
thing that can go wrong is the traffic
spike. So how can we manage the traffic
spike? Traffic spike is one of the thing
which everybody is worried about but
it's not something that you should be
too much worried about. Traffic spike is
known as something when unexpectedly our
server was configured to handle maybe
with the 5GB of RAM or just 1 GB of RAM
and I don't know how to even cast that
this can handle 100 user or thousand
user I have no idea on that. So this is
what we are going to learn that how we
can work and handle with that. Now first
of all what you can learn about is if
you're handling this thing using the
cloud providers these cloud providers
helps you to understand your load and
based on that you can configure things.
For example AWS provides you something
known as ASG. This ASG is known as
autoscaling group. What you can do with
this autoscaling group? It's a really
simple process. You can configure that
hey whenever my machine will get up I
will go ahead and get this git
repository. will install the things and
we'll install whatever I need to install
and then serve the application. But this
ASG can be configured with something
known as metrics and that can be maybe
CPU or it can be a RAM. Usually these
two are the most common one but there
can be other parameters. If my CPU or
RAM uh goes with the 80% of the usage or
60% of the usage immediately this
machine or this EC2 or this server is
going to notify to the ASG group and ASG
group can automatically spin up a new
machine only in only in that condition
when your RAM or CPU is spiking up 80%.
So you do not have to worry about now
every single cloud providers and these
famous ones they have some kind of ASG.
Yes, of course their naming is different
but this can be configured. So this is
most of the companies that used and yeah
it looks like they might be doing
extremely something really creative but
no behind the scene mostly is ASG
autoscaling group or some version of
that autoscaling group like there's a
Google cloud run there is Kubernetes HPA
and whatnot so all of that can come up
now in combination to this what we also
do is we actually get our load balancers
load balancers what this load balancer
does so now that you have different mach
machine. So this is one of your machine.
Autoscaling group has ship shipped
another machine or probably maybe three
machines. What this load balancer does
all of the request actually comes to the
load balancer and then load balancer
decides that okay your load looks come
uh looks like a little bit less and we
are going to just work with that and
your load looks really really high. So
I'm going to take this request and not
will give it to you. I will give this
request to you. That's that's
interesting and yes that's the step one.
All right. So the step one is okay. So
hopefully now that you are not that much
scared that this thing can be handled.
All right. Moving on to the next step.
What can you more do on that? You can do
some stuff on the software side as well.
There is something known as which is
taught in every software development
course which is known as rate limiting
and throttling as well.
You might have heard about these terms
in your JavaScript or something. But
this is something interesting and
sometimes you do them within your
software at the level of middleware
maybe directly in the index file. But
it's not like that. Sometimes it can be
done by other measures as well. So what
we have to do first of all plan this
out. You can actually limit the request
limit per user or you can limit per IP.
So you have to plan this advance or you
can even plan per token base as well. So
whatever the JWT token and anything that
you're giving you can store that into
your database as well and can serve the
request based on the token as well and
make sure you return the proper status.
If your limit is hitting up or
throttling is going on make sure you
return the response like that. Now a lot
of people think like okay I need to do
this in software but what you don't know
there is service like API gateway in the
AWS that can actually do this. So in the
API gateway this is mostly powered by
lambdas or there are a lot of ways but
through the API gateway there's just a
button where you can configure that this
particular request is going to be served
by x amount of time per second or per
minute. There is a way to configure it.
Now not only that if you're not looking
for Amazon services or something like
that you can go ahead and directly look
for engine X engine X. So in the engine
X you're going to notice this service
can be configured directly. So NX is a
web server and this can also handle
this. Look at the documentation. So if I
take you onto the documentation you are
going to see that it is somewhere here.
All right I need to search for it. It is
somewhere in the HTTP. Just give me a
second. I'll try to find it.
Let me pause the video. Here it is.
Found it. So here you can see we have
this one limit connection module and
limit request module. So yes, we can
literally go ahead and click on this and
can see that how it can be configured.
So notice here it can actually go ahead
and click on the burst of five and all
these things. Surely you have to read it
a little bit more that what's the rate
for serving this request on this
particular zone and stuff. But yes, it's
not like always needs to be configured
within the servers or within the code
itself. You can also go ahead and work
with this. All right, moving on. So this
is the another step. So what else we can
do to actually manage these these kinds
of things? One another strategy that
everybody uses is known as caching. And
caching is such a vast topic that even
the company behind NexJS is still in the
confusion that what should be the best
strategy to work on with the caching.
Sometimes they say cash everything.
Sometimes they say cash don't cache
anything. So caching depends on how you
want to strategize the thing. There is
no right, there is no wrong in this one.
So what can you do for the caching?
There are a lot of things. The first one
what you can do is use service like
Cloudflare. What is Cloudflare?
Cloudflare is a CDN content delivery
network which can store your videos,
images or heavyduty files in that region
where the user is nearby region and can
serve it directly. That actually saves a
lot of cost. That's first level of
caching. A lot of people think caching
only means radius or memach but actually
what majorly is throttling is these big
assets. The images, the videos, these
are the first one. You can also go ahead
and definitely use softwares like you
can use radius if you don't want to
invoke your database again but a lot of
people don't reach at this level
initially some things like radius or
memcached these are things which can you
can later on add depends how many times
you're hitting the database and if
that's the throttling point but majority
of the time you probably might be
suffering from big file uh problems so
go ahead and look for the CDN solution
and again cloudfare is not the only one
there can be many such solutions that
can work on with this. Now another one I
really wish that this could have been
introduced early on to the people. There
is a subject which we rarely study which
is known as use cues.
Yes, we study them quite a lot during
data structures and algorithm but usage
of the Q should be taught early on. Now
I really miss some of the things which
are there in frameworks like Laravel.
Laravel actually comes up by default
with the queuing mechanism. All you have
to do is configure your favorite Q that
can be rabbit Q or can be bull or can be
SQS by the Amazon simple Q service. What
Q does is most of the time when we write
the controller we write something like
this that go ahead and uh uh register
user in DB. So that's the first step.
After that we prefer to send a mail. So
we just call the send mail function and
there we go. What we don't realize is we
are actually making this stuff or this
whole thread the main thread busy for
sending the email. While it is sending
the email uh which is not an easy or the
fast task your main thread is actually
busy but when we are teaching the
students for the very first time even
sending the email is a lot for them. So
that's why we teach them but I wish
there could be an easy way to configure
these things in the cues so that I can
just keep on my thread and I can just
invoke a function in the queue that hey
this is my long q uh and these are my
send email send email and send email and
whenever server gets time or whenever
the queue is there to execute it can
work with that. I just write a function
that says uh send mail Q mail to Q that
would be so much good and people will
learn initially that all right I don't
need to keep my main thread busy I can
just send it as for this one that would
make like night and day difference in
the working of the users and I miss it
especially in the Laravel I think there
there's a requirement of kind of a full
stack framework for JavaScript so that I
can teach these concepts early on if you
look at the code base on Laravel. The
reason why I can't teach it much early
on is because if you teach any tutorial
on PHP, it will just say uh that you
know what PHP is outdated so don't teach
it either. But this concept is actually
early on there. Now comes up the most
interesting part which beginners don't
even talk about it or even work on with
this one. That is the fourth point and
of course my favorite one. A lot of
people just think only this much. But
what you don't talk about is stress
testing and most important
observability.
Observability.
Hopefully I wrote that correct. And this
is the most important stuff. If you have
put up enough application in the server,
you will realize that stress testing and
observability is the most important
thing. How do we stress test this?
Depends on what kind of stress you want
to test. Whether you want to test burst
of the request, whether you want to test
genuine all request or maybe too much of
the API calls, there are tools available
for every single of them. There are
tools like uh Ksix, pretty popular one.
There are tools like uh JMeter and of
course these are only few ones which can
help you to do all these load testing
and stress testing and all of that. Even
if some people comes to at this position
that all right I know the stress testing
but what they miss is this behemoth of
the topic known as observability
they kind of totally ignore this thing
that okay you're doing the testing but
who is observing that who is making the
reports of that you're just looking at
it and looking at the things doesn't
mean anything at all it needs to c
capture the picture it needs to generate
a report it needs to generate a summary
if you haven't measured anything you
cannot improve anything what's the point
of improving and how much you are
improving how much are you deimproving I
don't know what that goes on and this is
where tools like site 24x7 comes up and
I'll show you something really really
crazy about this so I hope you can see
this this at the end where it says
reports this is where the magic of 24x7
comes up so what this magic 24x7 comes
up is let me show you this at the very
top you can see there are custom reports
monitor but take a look on this yes we
have seen this rest API and websocket.
But here it goes. How is your mail
delivery system looking like? How is the
summary report? Notice here, this is all
they get. Total suspended time and
percentage and all of that. But this is
not it. I want to show you something
more interesting. Look at this. There
are Quran monitoring. So maybe you are
automatically taking the backup of your
database, but you have no idea how is it
going on, how well your chron jobs are
going on. Maybe there is one point where
it missed and then it again started to
work on. You have no idea. you have no
reports of it. And if I'll go up a
little bit bottom of this, this is where
the craziness starts. There's a docker.
But look at this. Yes, here it is. So
you can take a monitoring on S3 buckets
how they are performing your lambda
functions, your EC memcache cluster,
your EC radius node, SQS. We just talked
about that S3 object beantock
environment. And not only that, if you
just scroll this within just monitoring
one platform, you can work on EKS, you
can go for all Amazon, but
there's more to it. Let me scroll this.
And here it is. There's Azure and
there's a GCP. So, anything and
everything that you're using as a
multicloud, you need to work on this.
And this scroll is insane. There's GCP
as well. So my point of saying that is
that if you are not measuring you are
not improving.
So measure that. Go ahead and get the
report. I'll show you more on the report
as well so that you can get an idea of
how it looks like. So let's see
something which is familiar to us. Maybe
we are looking up for all right what do
we want to check for this one. All right
something which probably you haven't
seen. So SQS, how well your cues are
doing. Did you even thought for a second
that all right, I'll send it to the
queue and you forgot about it. Are your
cues performing well? Are they really
delivering the email? If some of the
messages are failing up because of the Q
problem or your code problem, but if is
if it is there a code problem, how come
these are working and these are not
working? Have you even considered that I
should be monitoring my Q health as
well? This is where these questions
comes up. And notice here we can
actually monitor our SQS. And here are
something interesting. I can get the
summary. I can get the availability
report, busy hours report that when was
the most user registering and our queue
was the most busy. So maybe we should
increase the capacity of the queue.
Maybe we should add another queue.
Whatever the decision you can take,
these decisions cannot be random and
cannot be from the gut feeling. They
need to come from the report itself. No
measure, no improvement. Then there is a
health trend report and there is a
forecast report as well based on the
trend that how much you are going on or
how much traffic your website is
getting. You might want to consider add
another queue on that. So this is all
that comes up. So notice here uh cues
based on number of messages sent number
of messages received. This is the matrix
that you want and all just in one click.
So I can just go ahead and grab this.
Obviously I don't have it but if you
have multiple cues you can work on with
that. Now this is the only uh right now
that I'm having but there is a kinesis
data stream as well and same can be
applied same level of discussion can
happen on other things like maybe you
are having a light sale database so if
you don't know Amazon also provides you
light sale which let me just show you
instead of explaining showing is better
so this is lightale by AWS this is a
fantastic service a lot of people are
not even aware of this so this is the
free uh virtual cloud server server
service server. Yeah. And what you can
do is yeah, you can get the VPS. Yeah,
that's interesting. So notice here you
have the fixed pricing. In case you are
afraid that Amazon always charge me
insane, you can just grab a $5 machine
which has 1 GB memory and these are
fixed cost nothing else. So these are
just like VPS. So yes, Amazon is playing
in that field as well. And in case
you're using this service which a lot of
people are not even aware you can check
the light sale that how is it going on
if you have installed a database or
anything you're using their service you
can just monitor that as well how good
it is. So that's coming back uh let come
back here and we will work on this.
There we go. So make sure that you
measure things and take a look on the
report as well. Without taking a look on
the report, you have no idea about
latency, error rate, resource spikes or
the Q backups. What is all going on? So
this is uh fourth point. How many points
we have discussed?
Oh, we forgot this one. So this is the
first part of load balancer. One, two.
Oh, my bad. What a mistake. This is
third, this is fourth, and this is the
fifth point.
There we go. All right. So this is all
what I wanted to geek about and
introduce you with the platform. But one
thing I would like to mention this as an
end note. It is completely okay that
your application is going down. Some
problems are bad problems in life and
some problems are good problems in life.
Having spike on your application is a
good problem and even if your server
goes down, it's a good problem to have.
Eventually you need to figure out that
if so much of the traffic is there, how
can I monetize this? Ads is a really bad
idea. You want to provide enough of the
value to the user so that they can
actually happily pay for your service.
That is always a good idea. So end of
the day I would say that hey uh make
sure you build good software but not
only just good software for your local
host make sure these software see the
day of the light push them on the server
and learn the monitoring because you
will be doing that in some companies as
well. By the way I have put the link for
the site 24x7 link in the description
section. They are offering a generous uh
free tier for a while and for this
channel especially they have been very
generous and offered that hey for your
users we will give them an extended uh
login free trial so go ahead and try
them out nothing to lose you will just
learn to monitor more resources that is
it for this video hope you have enjoyed
this I would love to bring more such
detailed insight of the industry and
that's it subscribe and I'll catch you
up in the next