Are we talking about Java and specially
Spring Boot? Yes, absolutely. In this
channel, we rarely talk about Java, but
we are about to change that in a very
good way. We're about to talk about Java
and Spring Boot and specially want to
walk you through that how the web
development works with the ecosystem of
Java.
Spring Boot is one of the classic web
framework which allows you to write web
application in Java and everybody is a
big fan of that.
Hey there everyone, my name is Atish and
welcome to the channel. In this channel,
we are uploading a whole lot of video
about the full stack project and we have
been doing this for almost 14 years now
and we have been changing stack for over
the years. It has been into from Laravel
to JavaScript to TypeScript and we are
also introducing Java and Spring Boot
now. Now with this video, I have a very
simple goal. I don't want to become the
entire series or anything. The goal of
this specific video is very simple. I
want to introduce Java Spring Boot in
such a way that if anybody wants to get
started in the web development via the
Java ecosystem, this becomes the go-to
video, the standard video that hey, any
fresher, anybody who is in the college,
you want to get introduced to the Java
Spring Boot for the very first time in
life, this is the ideal video. We have
made this video in such a way that for
the very first time we introduce that
why, how, and what picture of the Spring
Boot and you feel absolutely comfortable
in the Spring Boot. The Spring Boot is a
massive gigantic ecosystem and it is
completely fine to feel lost that where
should I get started, how should I get
started, which package to include, which
package not to include, give me a
theoretical as well as a practical guide
so that I can start my journey. And this
is that video. In the future, I'm pretty
much expecting that everybody who writes
code in Spring Boot recommends this
video as the very first getting started
guide to all the freshers in the
company, all the people in the college
and say, "Hey, that's the video that
everybody should be watching." And this
is one of the best introduction video on
the Spring Boot. And don't consider this
just as an introduction. This is not an
introduction. This is a hands-on guide
on Spring Boot for the very first time.
And the person who will be teaching you
this is Anirudh who happened to be one
of my early day student and now serves
through his coding services worldwide.
He happens to handle a huge amount of
financial data over the life of his
coding journey and he'll be introducing
you through this amazing journey of
Spring Boot. Very excited. All I request
you from your side is please show some
support in the comment section. Share
this video as much as you can if that's
possible. If that's not possible,
totally fine. Just leave a comment in
the comment section.
Just a small appreciation or from where
you are learning, that is more than
enough for us. A small encouragement
goes really, really long for us. And
without a further ado, let me hand it
over to Anirudh so that he can explain
you more about the Spring Boot ecosystem
and I'm pretty sure on one thing. You're
going to absolutely love this video.
Hello and welcome to the channel. My
name is Anirudh. I'm a software engineer
with more than 5 years of experience in
Fintech. Today, we will build a
Java-based backend application using
Spring Boot framework. And we will see
how it will help our influencer friend
set up their merchandise store. We will
go from the low-level design, get to the
coding part so that you will understand
how Spring Boot actually powers some of
the biggest tech companies around the
world, whether it is Walmart, Netflix,
Amazon, Google, and some of the biggest
players that are out there. So, if this
sounds exciting, let's get started. All
right, guys. So, before we get started
with coding, I want you to do some
system thinking with me so that tomorrow
let's say Spring Boot framework is not
there and you have to implement this in
a totally new framework, our thinking
process will remain same. So, we need to
understand the problem statement then we
will get into the coding part. Let's add
one user. So, this user has some
problems. So, he came to you saying
"Anirudh, I have a certain problem." So,
we have to save him. Just like in Marvel
world, there are superheroes who are
saving this world from a particular
incident from happening. So, we are here
to help Mr. User. Right? So, so Mr. User
is here and then we need to save him.
So, what what is he saying? He is saying
"Anirudh, I want to set up a merchandise
store. I want to sell particular items
so that I can make a revenue. Right? So,
this is a fairly simple ask. What what
all does he want to sell, right? So,
this is a first immediate question that
at least I get. So, I'll ask him "Hey
user, what all do you want to sell?"
Then he says "Hey, I want to sell some
t-shirts.
I want to sell some mugs. I want to sell
some stickers." And so on and so forth,
right? I'll say "Hold on, man. You're
telling me a very big list. So, this
seems like a fairly bigger problem than
what I anticipated. So, I'll gather some
questions that he that he is doing in
his business would usually get, right?
So, I'll ask him "What are some usual in
your day-to-day operations that you
would get, right?" So, Mr. User is
telling me some questions. So, let's
listen to them. So, Mr. User came back
and then he said "Anirudh, I have these
questions usually and these are the
questions which are frequently asked by
my customers also. So, I need your help
so that we will be able to address these
sort of questions." What are them? Let's
look at it, right? What is the price of
an item? So, like, obviously, like,
whenever somebody is purchasing, they
would want to know the price, right? And
okay, when was this particular order
placed? How many products are left in
stock so that based on the stock
availability, I can place an order. What
items are there in a particular order so
that I know if let's just there is some
dispute, I want to do some sort of
refund, I would want to know, right? So,
these are just general questions that
any shop owner or his customer would
have in their mind, right? So, I said,
"Okay, let's take a step back. Now, we
will help you set up the store in itself
first, then we will see how we can
address these questions in the end,
right? So, let's look at some abilities
like he as a creator, what all can he
get and how it will help his business
run, right? So, as a creator, what all
can he do? Let's write it down, right?
So, we are saying as a creator of the
store or as a owner of the store, what
all you can do? You can
create a product, you can update a
product, you can delete a product, and
you can, of course, once you create, you
should also be able to read a
product, and along with it, you should
also be able to see all the products
that are ever created, right? So, these
are some abilities that I can think of,
right? As a creator, he should be able
to do all this. But as a customer, what
all can I do? I should be able to, of
course, again, read all products,
read an individual
product so that I can see its details,
and I should be able to place an order
and view my order history, right? This
is fairly how most of the stores work.
So, from all this discussion, we
understood there will be two sort of
things around which the entire story is
going to revolve. One is a product and
one is the order. So, let's add them.
So, we'll have a product and this
product will have certain attributes to
it, right? So, a product will have its
name, product will have its description,
it will have its price, and how much
stock is available for this particular
product. And additionally, we will also
maintain a category under which it is
going to fall. So, if it is apparel,
then all the t-shirts and shirts will
come into that. If it is something of a
tech product, then all tech-related
things will get into that. Apart from
this, we will also have one more entity
which is our order. So, our order is
also important because that is the
actual one which is revenue generating,
right? So, in our order, what all will
we have? We will have We will capture
our customer name. We will capture our
customer email. And we will also collect
few more things like, okay, what
products are you actually purchasing in
this? So, this would be some sort of
array, right? So, this can be one or
more. This can definitely not be empty.
So, because they cannot place a empty
order, right? So, and of course the
status of the order. So,
at a high level, I can feel, Mr. user,
okay, from our discussion we have these
information that will be captured. So,
based on this, let's come up with a
database diagram and we will see how all
of these will be linked together, what
sort of relations that can exist between
them, and how we will save it into our
database. Because handling the data is
the key part. So, let's add some ER
diagram here and then we will get going.
All right, guys. Now that we know in a
high level what all fields we will have
for our product and order, let's convert
that requirement into an ER diagram. So,
let's add one table by the name of
products. We will add some
beautification. This is basically the
beautification given as an option by
Eraser. So, you don't really have to
remember any of these. So, I'm going to
add a table by the name of products.
Every product will obviously have a ID.
So, let's add ID, which is a primary
key. It will have a name, which will be
string. We will have a description,
which will be a string again. We will
have the price of the product. Now, this
will be decimal, because we should also
collect the paisa after the decimal
point. And after that, we will also
maintain the stock quantity. This will
be in integer. And apart from this, we
will also maintain few more metadata
like created at, which will be a
timestamp, and updated at, which will
again be a timestamp again. So, now that
we have our base product ready, so we
will have to maintain another table
where our orders are kept. So, let's
write down our orders. Now, when it
comes to orders, let's create one more
table. This will have a icon of shopping
cart, and then we will keep a color of,
let's say, purple, right? Now, this
orders will also maintain some
information in it. So, we will start
with our standard ID string. This will
be the primary key for this table. We
will have a customer name.
So, who is purchasing this? We will have
a customer email, which will again be a
string.
And we will have the status of the
order. This can be a enum value, but for
our simplicity, we are keeping string.
We can have the total amount total
amount. This will again be a decimal
value. And at what time was this order
really placed? So, you can have a order
placed time, but rather because I'm
going with the meta information syntax
of created at and updated at, I'm going
to pick the created at syntax. Now that
we have two tables with us, which is a
products and orders, there is no
particular relation between them. We
don't know which order has which items,
which product is present in which order
so that we can update the stock. So,
this is where to rescue us. We are going
to create a junction table. So, this
junction table will help us understand
how these both the tables, which is
products and orders, are related with
each other. So, let's write order items.
Order items. We will add a icon of,
let's say, list. We will add a color of,
let's say, blue.
Right? Now, this order item, again, it
will have the standard string primary
key. Now, here something interesting is
going to happen. One is, when you're
placing an order, you will have the
product's price, right? And this price
is something which is dynamic from time
to time based on the demand. The creator
can come, they can update, they can
decrease based on the sale. Right? But,
this should not hinder our analytics.
Let's say tomorrow you want to know how
much total sale did I make in the month
of March. So, I cannot do it based on
the current product's price, right? At
the time of purchase, how much price was
present? So, price at
purchase will, again, be a decimal
value. This is something which we're
going to maintain. And this items that
we have, this order items, can be in
multiple quantity. So, just like in
Amazon, you can add a item to the cart,
you can also mention how much quantity
of that you want. So, in the same way we
are going to capture our
quantity here, which will be an integer.
Now, I have the order items also. We
have three tables. You just added one
more, but this really didn't help me in
any way. So, what are we going to do
that will help in our situation where we
are going to connect these tables? So,
we want to have some sort of connection
between the products and orders. So,
that is where the order items came. So,
in our order items, we need to maintain
which order is this part of? And we
should also see which product for this
it is placed for. So, we will also have
a
product ID.
So, let's read it in a different way.
What we are saying here is every order
items, which is having a order ID, is
basically mapped with our orders table.
So, this will When we write this
particular sentence, what we are saying
every order will have multiple order
items. And this order item has something
called as a product ID. So, we are
taking this product ID, and then we are
mapping it with our products table. So,
do you see how this played out?
It is basically telling or how Let's
write it down, right? So, what are the
relations that got created after we
added
these particular lines. So, the first
one says
one order can contain
many order items. So,
hence, we have our first
one-to-many relation, right? And we are
also saying
one product can appear in many order
items, right? Because you have stock
available, and this can reappear until
the stock is completed. So, this is
again what is this? This is again
one-to-many.
So, this is the relation. Right now, we
have done it at the visualization level.
Now, when we come to the code, this is
exactly how we are going to write and we
will see how Spring Boot is going to
make it super easy for us. When you're
going to do the same thing in a
different framework, you will see how
complicated that is. But, when it comes
to Spring Boot, it is way simpler than
you can even imagine. So, Annie, now
that I know Okay, this is the database
design. Now, tell me, okay, what APIs am
I going to build so that I can just
really get started with the code, right?
So, we will have our APIs for product
and we will have our APIs for order,
right? So, let's list them down and then
we will see based on this how we will
design our endpoints also. So, first
thing First things first, we need to
give a option to create a product. So,
I'm going with the plural, which is
basically matching with the table name,
also. I'm going to use a post method to
create a product. So, this will be our
create. And I want to give my option of
updating a product via put endpoint.
And And I'm going to give an option to
read my product via the get endpoint.
Again, by the same products, but let's
say I want to read just an individual
product, right? So, read single.
So, what I'm going to do? Get again,
products, but this time with ID. You
remember we are saying every product is
uniquely identified by its ID. So, this
is where it actually comes into play.
So, let's get back to the API list. Now,
apart from getting the product, let's
say you also want to delete the product.
So, this is where you run your delete
endpoint. Again,
by product ID.
After the product, we have our order
also. So, we need to be in a position
where we can place our order. So, this
will be a post endpoint for orders. Once
the order is placed, I want to get the
individual order. So, let's say I'm
going to use the get orders by ID. And
then I also want to see all my orders,
right? Get all.
Again, this will be
get with forward slash orders in plural.
So, this will sum up our entire API
list. Now, this is a full API list. We
understood the requirement. We
understood the DB design. We understood
what the endpoints will be. Now, we will
see how Spring is going to help us in
making this entire project, but in a
rapid pace. This is where the Spring
Framework comes. The Spring Framework.
This is an open-source framework. This
is available on GitHub, but you don't go
there and raise some PR and do all those
things. Okay, this is just for
educational purpose only, okay? You're
not supposed to file any issues or
anything. This is you just open it, see
it, and close, okay? Now, we will
understand the Spring Framework from a
real-world example, right? Whenever you
are hungry, you would want to go and
find in your fridge what ingredients are
present. You're going to cook them and
you're going to eat, right? So, that
will suffice your hunger.
But, let's say you are in so much hunger
that you cannot even wait for cooking.
So, that is where your ready-made food,
which is where you can order from online
or let's say you can also do the frozen
food, right? So, somebody has already
done the cooking. You just have to heat
it up and then eat. So, someone else has
already gone to market. They bought the
vegetables for you. They did the cooking
also and then they gave it in a frozen
format. Of course, not everything, but
there are some items which are
available.
In the same way, Spring Framework saw
some issues that as developers, what all
common issues that we are facing. So, we
will take a real world example and from
that we will understand. I'll open a
website and then in that we will try to
observe what all things are there. Okay,
let's go by a real world example. We
will take one of the biggest e-commerce
application in India, which is Flipkart.
You can see they're already asking me to
login. I will do the wait.
So, here you see on their landing page
you have some sort of carousel and then
there are products being listed. It is
of course not saved somewhere in the API
server, but it is in some sort of a DB
where the information is present. That
information, when I open the website, it
said, "Okay, someone from Hyderabad is
requesting this page. Let me get the
information which is relevant to me."
Right? So, it is going to go into their
database, going to find, "Okay, what is
most relevant to Anirudh?" And then it
is going to return. Right? You have
again this cart login, right? Okay, one
is one more thing. Okay, here we have
authentication, right? So, this is very
common across applications. You will
have some sort of authentication which
is common, right? So, don't you see some
commonality in this? Every product will
have some sort of DB connection. Every
product has to send its information or
in order to communicate some sort of
REST API communication has to happen.
And you need some sort of DB connection
so that your API server can talk and get
you the information. It can persist the
details. Right? So, here Spring
Framework, people around the world who
have lot of interest in this, they came
together. They wrote small small
packages.
They wrote what? Small small packages
which exactly solve this. So, that a US
developer you don't have to reinvent the
wheel. You don't have to write your
authentication again from the scratch.
What you have to do is you have to go to
spring find which is most suitable to
you. You are not someone who is going to
face this for the very first time,
right? This might be faced by someone
else already. So they have done the
solution and what they gave is they gave
you you can install this. You do basic
configuration and once you do your
configuration as per your application
need, then you can get started with the
application development, right? You as
developer you focus on actual building,
right? For me as developer what all I
have to do, I have to do the DB design,
I have to create these endpoints. This
is my work. I should not be bothered
about okay, which DB am I going to use?
How will I connect to it, right? Those
are questions which I will hand it over
to the framework. This is where spring
is going to shine. It will say it will
do all the heavy lifting. I'm really
telling this is a bodybuilder, right?
This is going to lift all the 25 kg 100
kg dumbbell for you. You just have to go
to the gym. So now that you got okay
from
real world understanding okay, you
observe this something is built for you.
You go take that. You add it as a plugin
to your project and without breaking
your project you are going to do some
config and you can utilize exact same
behavior across your application. So
that is bit about spring and if you want
to know okay, what is the symbol of it?
This is a leaf symbol something like
this in green color.
What is the official website? Let's get
into spring's website. So this is a
spring's official website where they're
saying okay, spring makes working with
Java easy, simple, productive all
marketing terms, right? So here they are
saying okay, what all use cases where
you can use spring. Whether it is
generative AI, whether it is
microservices, cloud, web apps,
serverless, there are whole lot of
things and this is why enterprise loves
it. This there is a certain reason why
enterprise is actually using it. It is
not that one day someone wake up at this
big company and then said, "Okay, spring
has a leaf and I find it very much
appealing. I'm going to use it." No. And
there is a reason why companies like
Netflix are still using it till today.
Now, we'll get into the spring projects.
So, similar to you as developer whom you
have projects, right? So, spring also
saying, "Hey, I have some projects
readily available. You can go through
them, identify which is most suitable to
you and then you can pick." Right? So,
at the center of all, everything is
spring framework. So, what do they say?
Let's read out, right? What does it say?
It provides core support for dependency
injection, transaction management, web
apps, data access, messaging, and more.
One common doubt that everyone uh
usually have is, "Okay, we have a spring
framework, then what is a spring boot?"
You remember in my example where I said,
"We have food which you can cook and
eat." And there is also food which is
readymade available as a frozen food.
You just have to heat the food and then
eat. Spring boot is exactly that. So,
what does it read? Let's read. Spring
boot takes an opinionated view of
building spring applications and you can
get up and running as quickly as
possible.
And there are more such projects in
spring ecosystem. But, right now let's
get started with spring boot. We will
set up the project. We will see how
everything is flowing. We will see how
all the files are laid out, how it will
run. So, let's get started with that.
Fantastic, guys. You have followed the
tutorial till here. Make sure you drop a
comment. I'll send you a guide on how to
get rich in 30 days. Now, let's open our
IDE. This is IntelliJ IDEA. You can
download it from the internet basically
for free. And here you see there are
various options. Let's start by creating
a new project. We'll click on new
project and here we will mention this is
a
creator store. You can see I have a
location under which it will be created.
I'm going to go by the Java language.
I'll be picking the Maven build tool.
And in the group ID, you can see it has
basically entered my own website, which
is anilswala.in in the reverse order.
So, if you have your own website, make
sure you enter it in the reverse order.
So, it should be something like
com.google, right? In the reverse order.
The artifact is basically same as the
name. And JDK, whatever default it is
giving. If let's say you don't have JDK
installed, make sure you install it by
one of these options that are given in
this drop-down. The Java version,
whatever is default. One thing that I'm
going to change is the configuration.
Right now, I want to maintain everything
in the YAML format, which is my
preferred way of reading. So, I'll be
going with the YAML format. I'll click
on next. And here, the Spring Boot
version is already picked. This is the
latest version. Tomorrow, there can be
something else. So, based on whatever is
the latest, you go with that. In the
dependencies part, let's start
installing some things. These are the
dependencies which are given at the time
of creating the project, but I'll also
show you a way, let's say you already
have a project, how do I add a new
dependency into that, right? So, these
dependencies are similar to what you add
in your package.json in your JavaScript
world, right? So, here firstly, I want
to have one for my database. I'm going
with the Postgres driver, right? So,
this driver will help me to connect my
Java application to the Postgres
database. And next one, I'm going to add
one developer utility, which is Lombok.
This will help me in getting the getters
and setters for any given class. And
yeah, of course there are more, but
right now
you if you don't know what is getter and
setter, make sure you revise your Java
basics, right? Now, apart from these two
dependencies, there is one more which is
the crucial crux for this, which is the
Spring Web. So, this will enable us to
create and work with REST APIs. Let's
say you want to work with GraphQL,
right? So, that is where you search for
GraphQL,
and then you add the Spring for GraphQL
dependency. So, apart from this there is
one more which is very crucial, which is
the Spring Data JPA. This is the one
which is enabling us, this will act as a
ORM for us, and this will help us
connect to the DB. Whatever Java classes
I'm creating,
this will convert those into the
database tables inside my Postgres DB.
So, I'm going to add my JPA
configuration. And apart from all this,
there is one more which is the Open API
Spec. This is not Open AI, this is
different. This will help you in getting
your documentation for your website. So,
this is basically if you know something
like Swagger, so this is basically that.
So, it will help you generate Swagger
documentation. But for now, let's click
on create and then this will set up the
template and then give me a basic
starter guide, right? So, from this we
will understand the
project structure and then we will go
about what all we have in the project.
On to the left side, you can see there
are a lot of changes and then because I
also did Git initialization, let me
commit this file so that I know, okay,
this is where I started. I'm all I'm
basically showing you how I as developer
work, right? So, I'll make sure from
time to time I do my Git commits so that
you whenever you get this repository,
you see everything from time to time.
Right? So, this is the setup basic
setup. Right? So, I'm just committing
and then I'll just remove. So, this is
basically the IDE. So, here you have
commit option. Here you have your
project structure. Right? On to the left
side. Right? So, here you have your
file structure. Right? So, here let's
see. Let's expand and see what all we
have. Okay, initially we have dot idea.
I have no idea what is this, but I'm
just kidding. So, this is related to the
IntelliJ IDEA. This is the folder which
is specific to the IDE itself. So, you
don't have to touch it. The Maven is in
short known as MVN. So, here it has a
properties where it is saying, "When I'm
going to do my installation of
dependencies, this is the location where
I'm going to go, search for the
dependencies, and get the dependencies
for you." So, this is similar to your
NPM JS
registry. Right? And next we have SRC.
Okay, we know okay something related to
source code will be there. We will not
open that. Okay, we have our Git ignore.
So, this is a file used to ignore
certain folders, files in your Git
history. Okay? Next you have your Maven
W. This is the actual Maven which is
present in your project level. So, that
you don't have to download Maven every
time. Maven is included in your project
only. So, that is a good thing. So,
similar to package.json, we have
pom.xml. This is an XML format, guys.
Remember, this is not in JSON format.
This is an XML format. That is why
you're seeing all these tags open tags
close tags something like a HTML. Right?
But, what we are most interested in.
Right? Okay, so some things that I saw
at the time of creating is this the
group ID artifact ID. Recall? So, this
is the name. I have some description.
Right? Okay, these are the things which
I'm not bothered about. But, I know okay
there is something like okay, Spring
Boot version, which is 4.5, right? I'm
able to understand from this if this
does not totally make sense, I know,
okay, by reading this basic uh human
instinct is kicking in. Now, when we
scroll down here, we see, okay, there is
a dependencies list. In this, I see each
individual dependency is being added,
right? So, what all we have? We have
added many things, right? One is a
Postgres, one is a Lombok, one is the
Spring Framework in itself, right? So,
what all dependencies we added are going
to sit in this place. So, this much I
can understand. So, tomorrow when I
wanted new dependency, I'm going to go
find somewhere, and then I'm going to
add it into my pom.xml. In the SRC
folder, we usually have two folders,
main and test. Main is where your actual
source code is present, and test is
where you write your unit test cases. In
the main, we have Java and resources.
Resources have application.yml.
At the time of setup, you remember I
told that I have a preference of YML.
So, this is exactly the file which I was
talking about. The configuration of my
entire Spring Boot application is this
particular file. So, from this, I can
enable some default flags which are
currently turned off or on, right? I can
do all my control from this particular
location. Tomorrow, when I'm going to
add my database, let's say I want to
connect to my database, all the
credentials will be mentioned in this
particular location. Of course, not the
direct string, I will mention it in my
.env, but this is the location where all
my configuration is going to be present.
Now, in the Java folder, we see, okay,
there is one file, because when I was
working with a Java project, I usually
used to create one Java file, which is
my main class, and I have just that one
file. So, this is that one file. This is
my main class file. So, here, you see
there is a run button. Let's see, okay,
whatever happens happens. Let's click on
run and then see, okay, what will
happen, okay? On the left side you see
there is a target folder which is
created and then this is where your
generated output is going to be present.
So here if you expand and see, this is
my compiled decompiled version of my
Java code. So this is where all my dot
class files are going to sit. If you
don't understand what is dot class, go
revise your Java. It is a fantastic
language you have to learn it. Okay, now
that I appreciated about Java, my
application tend to fail. So it is
saying, okay, there is some sort of URL
which is missing which I will be adding,
right? Because we included the
dependency of Postgres, but we didn't
really connect our application to the
database.
That is nice. So my application is
actually working. It knows there is
certain dependency which is asking for a
detail that I am yet to supply. So this
is a great start. Now we will get into
the next chapter. Let's look at some of
the configuration that is needed for us
to add so that our application will be
up and running. So let's add them. So
first we will add our database
information
information. In this we will be
including our data source. If you
remember in our error also it was saying
something around data source URI is
missing. So we will add the URL of the
database.
We will have to mention the username of
the database and also the password. This
information either you can get it from
Neon Supabase or you can spin up a
Docker machine on your local and then
you can get it from there. I will show
you how you can do it from a Supabase
example. And after this we will also
have to add some ORM configuration. So
if you worked with uh some of the
JavaScript based applications, right? If
you worked with something like Drizzle,
Prisma, Mongoose, you must have seen how
it will make our job easy where you
don't have to write any SQL commands but
just do some little programming, and
that will automatically do all the rest
of the conversion for you. So, in our
case, we are going to work with
Hibernate. So, Hibernate is a ORM
library, which will exactly work in the
same way, but for Java. So, when it
comes to Spring Boot applications, we
have a different version of it. So,
where it can I find it when I open my
pom.xml? Here, you can see we have
something called as Spring Boot starter
data JPA. So, this is exactly the
package which is responsible for our ORM
configuration. So, in our configuration,
let's add some details for uh Hibernate,
okay? Let's add it as Hibernate ORM
configuration, right? So, here we will
have to mention our JPA configuration.
So, JPA stands for Jakarta Persistence
API. If you don't know what it means,
just Google it. This is a homework, so
you can write it down. And this we are
going to enable the Hibernate's DDL
auto. So, in the world of database, when
you work with queries, it is divided
into DML, DCL, DDL. So, this is the DDL
which we are telling. So, whenever I
have a data definition language that is
present in my application, I want that
to automatically update my DB. So, I'm
giving a flag of update. There are few
more flags that I want to enable. One is
the show SQL, so that I know like what
exactly you're running in the
background, and this will help us in the
debugging, and then we will also see in
our logs what sort of tables are being
created, what sort of insert commands
are happening, what sort of select
commands are happening when we do our
particular CRUD operations. Apart from
this, I want to enable few more
properties. So, properties,
here I want to select my Hibernate and
format my SQL in a more readable way.
So, this is one more option that I want
to enable, so that this is more in a
human readable format. Now, in this
entire file right now, I'm just missing
three information. One is my URL,
username, and password. All this
information I can either hardcode it
here, or I can mention it my dot ENV,
and from my dot ENV, I can load this
information into this. So, when it comes
to production systems, we usually load
it from our ENV file. But, where do I
actually get my database information?
Let's open up Supabase. Right now, I'm
in my Supabase dashboard. Here, I'll
click create, and then we'll fill in the
details that are necessary, and then
we'll get into the configuration part.
When we click on create new project, we
will see a screen similar to this. Here,
we'll enter our details, and then we'll
get into the next stage. In the project
name, I'll enter something like creator
store.
In my database password, this is
something that I have to keep a copy of.
I'll just click on generate password,
and then I'll keep a copy of it in my
clipboard.
In the region, I'm picking Asia Pacific,
which is closest to my region, and then
I'll click on create new project. This
will automatically spin up a machine in
somewhere in the Supabase
infrastructure, and then it will give
you all the details that are necessary
for you. Right now, this has spinned up
in the Singapore location. Now, we want
to connect to this DB via our Java
application. So, here you see there is a
connect button. Here, we will get into
the direct connection, and we will pick
a session pooler. This is important. So,
we cannot go with direct connection,
because direct connections are usually
not friendly, and this is not from a
pool. Rather, this is a direct
connection to the database, which is not
encouraged, and sometimes even Supabase
kind of rejects it. So, in the type, I'm
going to pick something which is
friendly with the Java, which is JDBC.
So, here, right now, I'm getting a
shared pool. So, in this pool, there are
multiple connections available and based
on whenever my application spins up,
when my application starts, it will go
check in the pool and then pick
whichever connection is available. So,
I'll copy the URL from here and then
paste it into my application. And in the
URL here, I have pasted it. So, here I
see there is this is a very big string.
Here, I can see the protocol is JDBC.
This is something very important. You
cannot remove JDBC from here. We have
our protocol of Postgres and this is our
server where our database is hosted.
Here, we have our username. Let's copy
our username. Let's paste our username
here. And then you see it is asking me
to enter the password. So, password is
already with me. And then I can just
remove everything after the query
parameter. Now, one way is we either
store these as plain text in here, but
the risk is whenever I commit this
files, this will be available to
everyone in the world. So, that is not
something which I want to happen.
Rather, I want to store these in my ENV.
And when my application starts, what is
going to happen? I'm going to start it
via the main class. So, here I have to
do some changes so that my {dot} ENV is
loaded and it is available in my
application.yml. Okay, guys, right now I
am on Google. I have searched for Maven
repository. This is similar to what we
have in the JavaScript world for npmjs.
So, this is the website which is
responsible for listing all the
dependencies that we are looking for. It
will maintain versions of the dependency
and you can find the installation
scripts for them. You can of course you
can find the documentation around it and
a lot. So, let let me open Maven
repository. And here, we are going to
look for one dependency which will help
us in all the ENV setup. So, I'm going
to look for {dot} ENV and search. So,
here in the very first result, you see
.env Java. We want to go with this one.
For the .env Java, here we have various
versions. Let's pick whichever is the
latest one. And we'll scroll down here
to find the installation script. We'll
click here. It will automatically copy
to uh clipboard. And we will get back to
our IDE. In our IDE, we have to navigate
ourselves to the pom.xml. Here, you see
there are various dependencies listed. I
want to go to the last. Here, I will
enter and then click paste. I want to
remove this particular comment. This is
not needed anymore. And once I do, I
need to make sure I'm going to sync my
Maven changes so that Maven is going to
go find this dependency, download it,
and make this particular package
available for me. For now, I can close
my pom.xml. And this is how you search
for a particular dependency and you add
it into your project. In the main
method, let's do some configuration so
that this is available. So, we will say
configuration of .env Java. So, let's
add .env.
So, this is coming from the .env
package. Here, I'm going to create a
object for it so by the name of .env.
And then I'm going to say, "Hey, .env,
can you add my configuration
and ignore if anything is missing and
load them whatever that are present in
my .env file." Let's add this to our
system properties. We are going to say
.env.entries.
So, for every entry that is present in
my .env file, so for each entry value, I
am going to map it to my system.
property.
And here, I'm going to take the key
value as it is, whichever is present in
my env file. And then I'm going to pick
my get value. So, for you to understand
this in a more clearer way, let me
format this so that it is visible to
you. Here you can see what we are
saying. I'm loading an object of .env
from the package that I've installed.
And for each value in my .env file to my
system that I'm currently running as a
process, which is my Java application,
I'm going to set the property of key and
value that is going to come from a .env
file. So, let's create a file by the
name of .env and then we will see what
to do next. So, we will right-click here
file.env
and then here it is asking, "Do you want
this to be in my Git?" I'm saying
cancel. I don't want this file to be
tracked at all in my Git because this is
where I'm saving my secret values. So,
here I'm going to maintain the key-value
format of database URL, database
username,
and database password. So, these are my
keys and I'm going to maintain my
values. So, if you remember in my YML
file, I was maintaining the plain text.
I'm going to copy this information of
URL, paste it here, and in the same way,
let me do for other fields also for the
username, and for my password also. Now,
I have a location where all my
information is saved in my .env. My Java
application is going to load this .env
file whenever my application is going to
run, and it will be made available to my
YML file. But I need right now I still
see the plain text here. So, how do I
substitute it with the .env values? So,
there is a syntax for this. So, we need
to use a dollar symbol, and we need to
mention in the curly braces what is a
key that you want to load. So, I'm
saying I want my database URL, and in
the same way, database username for the
next field in the curly braces again.
And for the same way, in the database
password.
So, now that I have all of this
information, we can also check in my Git
tracking.
I am not committing my .env file, and I
am committing my application file, but
here there is no sensitive information.
Now, in this way, when my application is
deployed to production, I can make sure
I can set my .env values on the server,
and this information is not leaked
anywhere to the internet. Now, let's run
this project and see does it succeed or
does it continue to give us more errors,
right? So, let's run it and then take a
leap of faith. All right, so right now
I'm seeing some logs, and then we can
see yes, there is a successful DB
connection message, where it says
database JDBC URL for this particular
link has been connected, and then right
now we currently don't have any tables
to be created, so right now the DB
connection is successful, and my
application is started, and it is up and
running. And on which port it is running
on? Port number 8080. So, we are done
with the setup of the .env. Let me
commit these changes, and then we will
go to the next chapter. So, let's stop
this server which is currently running.
We will go to the commit message, we
will write this as chore
add .env Java for the
for the application. We're done with
most of the basics that are needed for
our application to be up and running.
Now, let's start with the actual coding
part in itself. So, if you remember from
our DB diagram, we had three tables. So,
let's go about creating these three
tables, but where do I create them?
Let's follow a proper structure here.
So, let's create a new package in my
main folder by the name of entities,
and under my entities I'm going to
create several Java class files. So, by
the name of product.
Of course, don't ask me again. Let me
add this automatically. So, let's
mention the attributes that the product
table needs and then we will get into
the rest of the part. Let's start with
our ID value. So, this will be long ID
and then we will have a private string
product name, private string
description. We will have private string
category. We will have private this big
decimal
and price. Let's add one more field,
which is our private integer stock
quantity. So, we are done with our basic
fields. Now that we have our product
class ready, now we have to inform
Spring Boot and say, "Hey, you can go
ahead and create objects for this. You
can create table for this." So, we need
to mention certain annotations. So,
annotations add some sort of meta
information so that this particular
class is extending more functionality.
So, let's add the annotations that are
necessary for our class. Starting with
the entity. Now, this entity is coming
from the JPA. So, we have to import this
and you can see it is coming from the
Jakarta Persistence API. JPA table and
here I can mention a different table
name. I want to have a plural of
products. After this, I want to add my
annotations for getter and setter, which
are coming from the Lombok library. And
uh one more is the all arcs constructor
and no arcs constructor. And
additionally, I want to use the builder
design pattern, which will make sure on
the fly when I need a certain field to
be set in a certain way. I'm using the
builder design pattern for it. If you
don't know what is builder design
pattern, just Google it and then you
will understand this. Again, this is
builder design pattern is being enabled
by the Lombok library for us. These are
the annotations we have added just at
the class level, but there are few more
things. You have said Annie that the ID
is a primary key, but you haven't
mentioned this in your table, right?
Because now when Hibernate comes and
checks this particular class, it knows
it has to create these, but let's say
you want to enforce some restrictions.
You want to add some validations for
these fields. Let's say your name cannot
be empty. Your description has to be in
a certain length. So, how do we do that?
That is when you add your annotations at
your field level. So, now we will get
into the fields. So, for each fields,
let's add certain annotations, right?
Now, the first one for the ID we are
going to take from the JPA again
with the
ID. We are going to generate this value.
This is something which I'm handing over
to the database and then I'm saying,
"Hey, I want you to follow the strategy
of generation type identity. You
maintain the sequence and then give me
the information for this." Now, when it
comes to the name, I want to make sure
this column is not null. So, we have a
description which can be null. Our
category for now I'm saying, "Okay, this
can be null as well." After category, we
have price. This is an interesting field
in itself. Again, here column cannot be
null. I'm going to add one decimal min
validation where it will say, "My value
of my price should be always be greater
than zero." So, here my inclusive is
false and then my message says, "Price
must be
greater than zero." So, this is the
validation that I'm going to add for the
price field. And when it comes to the
stock quantity, in the same way let's
add our column to be nullable. But here
you see this is in camel case, but when
it comes to the database, we have to
maintain everything in snake case. So,
we need to have our underscores. So, I'm
enforcing the name of the column to be
something different from what we already
have. So, I'm going to copy paste here
and then between words, let's add a
underscore and the capital becomes
small. So, this is how we are going to
store the database column name. Now,
here because this is a integer value,
our decimal min will not work. Rather,
you have a min value. So, here our value
will become zero and messages
stock cannot be less than zero. So, this
is our basic validation that we have
added. Apart from this, let's say you
want to add little more enforcement,
let's take a look at that also. So, for
our field where we are saying nullable
is false, so it cannot be blank as well.
So, we have our not blank and then we
are adding a message where it says
product name is required.
And in the same way, when it comes to
our price, this cannot be null value and
then our message will be
price is required.
And lastly, in our stock quantity, let's
add a not null with a message of
stock
quan-
-tity
stock quantity is required.
So, in this way we are done with one of
the biggest table, which is our product
table. And in fact, there will be more
changes on which we will revisit
especially on the relations. So, I'm
adding a to do that we'll have to
revisit here on the relations that we
will be adding. For now, we will close
our product class and then open the next
one, which is our order class. Order
class. Now, in this Now, in our order
class, as you know the drill already, so
we'll have some table level annotations.
Let's add our entity. Let's add our
table with the name of orders. And the
same way we'll have our getter and
setter.
Getter and setter. There is a different
way. Let's say you don't want to add
your getter and setter. There is one
more annotation. But for now, to be more
verbose, let's go with the setter and
getter. And then we'll have our all arcs
constructor and no arcs constructor. And
now in the order, we'll have to maintain
few fields. So, let's write down the
fields and then later we'll get into the
annotations part of it. So, we will go
by the private long ID. And we will have
one more which is the private string
customer name.
Private string customer email. Along
with customer email, we will also have
to track our order status. After a
status, we have private big decimal of
total price. So, this total price is a
calculation of each big decimal price
value that we have at our product level.
Next, we will have one more computed
information which is our local date time
for local
date time for our created at field. So,
the created at and updated at fields
were present in our ER diagram. So, the
same things we have mentioned here. Now,
let's add some annotations for the
fields that we have added. So, this will
be the at the rate ID generated value
will be strategy with generation
strategy of identity. And our customer
name should have a annotation of column
which is nullable false. And we need to
rename this to a different uh key of
customer underscore name. In the same
way, we will have to do for our customer
email. Customer underscore email with
the nullable as false. And in the same
way, when it comes to our status also.
So, our nullable will be false. And in
the total price, let's add our
annotation of column and here we'll have
to make sure our
column name is in the snake case format
with nullable false. Now, when it comes
to the created at column, let's add our
annotation of column
name with the column name as created
underscore at. So, this is something
which we have to pre-process. So, this
is something a method which will run
before it saves the record to the
database. So, here we are going to
create a method by the name of public
void pre-persist
pre-persist. And here I'm going to say
this dot created at field that we have
access to, this will have my local date
dot now. Now, in the same way you can
add the same created at logic in other
classes also, but I'm giving this as
assignment. And also here we didn't add
any extra validations. So, now this is a
take home assignment for you where you
can add little extra validations. And
when we actually go about creating our
particular order, right? Then we will
see how we can handle these particular
errors, how we will show these messages
to the UI. So, we will get to know all
those things. Now, let's get into the
next class which is our order items. So,
let's create another entity which is
order items. And here we are going to
look at what more fields are going to
come. So, order items will follow the
same convention as we did before. We'll
have our at the rate entity. We'll have
our table with the name of
order items. We will have our getter.
We'll have our setter.
No args constructor.
All args constructor and the builder
design pattern.
Right? So, now you know what are the
most common annotations that we are
going to use in this project. When it
comes to the fields of order items,
let's write those down. Private long ID
and then you have your integer quantity
and then you have your
private big decimal, which I have to
import, I believe.
Price at purchase.
>> [snorts]
>> And finally, we'll have to add our
relations here. So, to do that I've
mentioned here, which I'll be adding it
later. So, now when it comes to the
field, let's add these annotations,
right? So, at the rate ID at the rate
generated value with the strategy of
generation strategy.identity
and in the quantity, I want to make sure
this will be a column of nullable false.
Right?
So, nullable false. And And when it
comes to the price at purchase, we need
to make sure we have a nullable false.
And then we are also renaming this
particular field as price at purchase.
Now, this is exactly what we have
replicated our ER diagrams, but there is
one thing which is missing, the
relations of one to many. So, right now
we have three files, we need to connect
our tables. So, this is where we are
going to start. So, if you remember the
relations that we set between these
tables, let's start with the order. So,
one of the relation that we mentioned
was one to many, where we were saying
every order will have multiple order
items. So, we need a field for it,
right? So, let's add it before, let's
say, the created at. So, let's say we
want to have our private list of order
item, where I'm saying order items. And
so, let me import this list from the
utils package. And here I'm going to
say, "Hey, one order will have many
order items." And what will this be
mapped to? So, when I say mapped by,
this will be mapped by orders. So, where
is this particular orders present? It
should be present in my order item. So,
let me open my order items. And here I'm
going to add a field where it is going
to be by the name of orders. Now, in the
order items I want to make small
correction. Here I want to make it as
order item and then let me also update
the file name. All right. So, here we
have order item where we are saying
every order will have multiple order
items, right? So, in this, so this will
be many to one because on the other side
we had mentioned one to many. So, here
we are going to say, "Hey, private
order, I'm going to have my field by the
name of order." So, this is a field name
that I have to map it here. So, in my
mapped by I need to mention order and
not orders, right? So, make sure you do
that correction also. Now, in our order
items we are left with one more which is
the join column. So, we are going to
say, "Hey, please join my column by the
name of order underscore ID and this
will be nullable false." So, this will
add our very first relation between our
order table and order items. We are left
with our products. So, in our product
class currently we are missing one
particular relation that is to be mapped
which is our at the rate one to many and
then we are saying private list order
item
and then order items. Let's also import
my list from the utils and I have to
make sure it is also mapped. It is
mapped by the product field, but is this
product field available in my order
item? Until now, no. So, let's add that.
So, I'm going to say many to one and
then private product product. And you
know the drill now. So, we have to join
the column by the name of product ID
with nullable false. And one small
addition into the product. So, whenever
I'm requesting a product or let's say
I'm getting a product by its ID, I don't
want to know the order item because I'm
interested to know what all fields that
the product has, but not the orders in
which the product is present. So, I have
to make sure I give this @jsonignore.
So, adding this property will make sure
whenever I'm fetching my product, I'm
not accidentally also getting all the
orders that are associated with it. So,
this is a good practice that we have to
maintain. Now that we are done with
adding all the three tables that are
necessary for my project, let me get
into my main application and let's say
we run this and then let's look if my
application is able to create these
particular tables in my database. We
will check the logs also. We can see All
right. So, there are some changes and we
can see the logs also. And because this
is running for the very first time and
these tables are not present in my
database, it has ran this create table
create orders and create products. Apart
from this, it has also added a
constraint
which is my relation between the tables.
It has altered the existing table. It
has added the foreign key references
with the primary key that is in my
original table. So, this is the beauty
of Hibernate. This is all done by
Hibernate all by itself. We as
developers, we are just doing the Java
code part and Hibernate is doing all of
our SQL heavy lifting. So, let's also
verify these in our Supabase tables so
that we know these tables are actually
created. Right now, I'm in my Supabase
dashboard. I'm opening my project and
here in the table editor when we go and
see, right now here I have three tables
that are already created. Let me open my
product items and then I can go to the
definition and then also see what are
the commands that it has used to define
this particular table. Let's say you
want to look how all my tables are
structured, is it matching my original
DB style? Let's get into the schema
visualizer. Here let me collapse this.
And here you can see this is exactly the
original DB design that we did on a
razor. Now we have done all this via
code and we didn't write even one single
SQL line ourself. We have handed it over
to hibernate and hibernate as ORM it has
done all the magic. Now that we have
completed our models, we will commit
this files and then we'll go to the next
layer, which is a repository layer. So
let's add these to the git. So let's say
store entities
for creator store added. Right, let's
commit this files and then we are good
to go. So we can close this files for
now and we'll get the project explorer.
Now that we have our entities in place,
we will create our repository package
using which the repository will be
responsible for talking to the database
and performing the operations of create,
read, update, delete onto the entities.
So let's create that. Now in the new
we'll create a new package by the name
of repositories.
So for our three entities that we
created, we have to create its
respective repositories so that I can
control these particular tables from my
code. So let's create the files
necessary for it. So I'll click on new,
create new Java interface, but this time
it will be product repository.
And this will be an interface guys. So
make sure you remember that. This is not
a class, this is a interface, right?
Now, in the product repository
interface, we are going to extend some
inbuilt functionality. We are going to
take help of JPA repository. Again, JPA
is coming from the Jakarta Persistence
API, which is going to give us all the
implementations that are necessary. And
who is going to write this particular
implementation? It has been written by
Hibernate, right? So, JPA is a standard
that Java language has given. And
whichever ORM we are using, the ORM is
responsible for writing its
implementation. So, let's extend the
interface. So, the flexibility that we
get here is because we are going to
extend JPA repository, and we don't know
what is the underlying ORM. Tomorrow,
let's say you want to switch to a
different ORM, we don't really have to
make much code changes. We just have to
give the configuration as we saw in the
application.yml, and then we are good to
go with our code. So, let's extend JPA
repository.
Now, here I need to mention which entity
this particular JPA repository will be
implemented. So, I'll mention the data
type as product, because this is for the
product entity. And the product entity
class currently has one unique
identifier, which is by the name of ID.
And what is the data type for it? It is
of long. So, we need to carry forward
the same data type into the product
repository, so that all its unique
identifiers are of data type long. Now,
this is it. We don't really have to add
any more methods into this interface,
and your underlying ORM is going to do
all the heavy lifting, right? So, for
now, we are going to close product
repository. So, we are going to create
more repositories that will match our
entities, right? So, we'll click on new,
create a order
order repository.
Now, product repository this is not a
class again, make sure you mark it as an
interface and here also we are going to
extend the JPA repository and you can
see it is already giving me lot of
suggestions, which is very nice. Right?
Now, apart from this I'll need one more
interface, which is the order item
repository
and I'm going to in a similar way extend
JPA repository order item
order item and then this is of long.
Right now, you might not really
understand why did we even create these
interfaces, but when we start writing
our business logic, I'll show you how
these repositories are helping us to
communicate with the database. Now, that
completes our repositories, we can close
this. Now, we will start by implementing
some controllers. In our original
diagram on Eraser, we have listed
certain end points, so let's create
these end points and where will these
end points reside? These will be in the
part of controller. So, let's create a
new package by the name of controllers
and in the controllers I'm going to have
various controllers for my product and
order. Right? So, I'm going to create
one for my product controller and in the
same way when the right time comes, I'm
going to create for the rest. So, let's
start with the product. If you remember
in the product we had a read, update,
delete, read a single product, read all
products. So, let's create certain
controllers. These are our rest end
points, which will enable the client,
whether it is a front end mobile app or
a website or even your postman, to
communicate with our back end. So, this
is a point of control which all external
systems are going to talk to and our
controller is responsible for defining
these particular back-end endpoints and
it is going to tell which particular
functionality is going to run in this.
So, let's get started by writing our
very first controller. In the product
controller, as I said, we are going to
have certain methods. Let's list them
down. In the product controller, to the
very first one that I want to have is
create product. So, once I create a
product, I should also be returning that
particular product. And we will have a
method for updating the product, update
product. And while you're updating, you
need to accept what is the new product
with which you want to update, right?
So, I'm going to accept that. Along with
this, I'm also going to accept my ID
value. So, this ID will tell which
product am I actually updating and what
are the new fields that I would need in
this. So, for now, let's return null
here and we will see what all logic goes
later, right? So, after the create
update, I need an option to read the
product also. So, let's say get
products. So, here I'm going to return
all the products. And when I'm
returning, this will of course be a
list. So, let's declare a list of
product. And for now, I'm going to
return null. In the same way, I'm also
going to return a individual product by
a certain ID. So, let's write that.
Public void get product by ID. So, you
see how I'm naming my methods which are
very much readable and understandable.
So, for an outsider, when they come and
look at your code base, it is very
clearly giving signal that you're trying
to perform an action and it is very much
readable. So, this is something which
you have to follow while you're coding.
So, let's accept a long ID. And when I'm
getting it, I also need to return my
product. So, for now, let's return null
for time being. And after all this, we
also need to give a flexibility to
delete the product. So, public void
delete product. And while I'm deleting,
I don't need the entire product object.
I just need which product you are
looking to delete. So, I'll just accept
the ID value now. So, long ID. And then
here, I don't really have to return
anything. So, I'm going to mark it as
void. So, Anirudh, you have written the
methods, but you didn't really tell
which method is responsible for which
endpoint. So, that is what we are going
to do now. So, at our class level, let's
add certain annotations. And at the same
way, we are going to have some method
level annotations, which will make this
particular class Spring Boot ready. So,
let's start by adding the at the rate
rest controller. So, rest controller
says, I am going to use this particular
class for all my rest API operations.
So, I'm going to mention a particular
path under which all my endpoints are
going to be available. So, I'm going to
have a request mapping. And then my
endpoint will be {slash} API {slash}
products. So, every method currently
that I have declared here will be
available under the suite of API
{forward-slash} products. Now, this is
at the class level. Now, what happens to
the method level annotations? Let's
start by writing those. Now, when it
comes to our methods, we need to provide
certain annotations, which will make
them eligible for the rest API
operation. So, it can be a post
endpoint, get endpoint, delete endpoint,
or a put endpoint. So, let's write
those. So, for my create product, I want
to have my at the rate post mapping. And
I need to be in a position where I'm
going to accept this particular product.
And this will be small p product with by
the variable name. And here I need to
make sure whatever product is being
passed, it is a valid product and in
fact I have certain validations which
are already written at my entity level.
So for these validations to kick in, we
need to also specify hey Spring Boot, I
want you to make sure whatever
information that you're giving me, these
are actually valid. And apart from this,
because this information cannot be
passed, this is an object. It cannot be
passed in a URL. Rather, we're going to
accept it in the request body. So we're
going to mention it as at the rate
request body. So whichever client is
responsible for doing the post end point
call, they need to ensure that in the
request body they are passing this
product. If you don't know what is
request body, I will show you during the
demo, but we will go to the next one for
now. Here in the update product, right
now I don't want a post mapping, rather
I want a put mapping where I'm saying I
want to update certain information. So
I'm going to accept few fields in my URL
and then also in my request body. So you
see here we're accepting two parameters.
So for the ID it is going to come from
my path. Right? So I'm going to have my
forward slash ID and then this will be a
path variable that I'm going to accept
from. And again here we're going to
accept product. So we need to make sure
this is also valid. And this is again
coming from my request body. So these
are the annotations which are coming out
of the box as libraries when we are
working with Spring Boot. So lot of
things are being abstracted from us and
we can actually focus on the development
part only. Now, let's look at the get
products. Because we're are to get some
information, we're doing the
@getmapping.
Now, here we have another get method,
but here it has been differed where we
are accepting certain information as ID.
Now, where will this ID come from
because this is a primitive data type?
We can access it in the URL itself. So,
we are saying @getmapping
and then I'm going to accept this ID in
the path. And this value is again going
to come from my path variable where I'm
saying in my API path I have a variable,
so you make sure you go and find it. And
one more thing we have to make sure
whatever ID we are specifying, this is
the same ID matching here so that Spring
Boot can easily match and understand,
okay, the user is trying to look for
this particular variable in the path.
Now, let's get to the last one, which is
the delete mapping, and then you can
already guess here we are going to
accept the ID value in the path
variable. And let's also add the path
variable annotation for this. Now, we
are done with the skeleton for the
product controller with annotations.
Earlier, we have just written bare-bones
methods. After that, we have written
annotations to the class, and later we
have written certain methods which are
going to help us meet the requirements.
And for these methods to empower them,
we have given certain annotations that
will make them REST API eligible. Now,
Anirudh, are you going to write your
entire logic of these particular
endpoints in this file? Already, this
looks lot bloated. There are so many
methods. Let's say tomorrow you're going
to add five more methods into this, then
we cannot really have a business logic
in this. So, if you're following the
proper solid principles, we need to make
sure we separate out our logic of
creating this product, updating this
product, getting products all into
separate place so that we comply by the
solid principles rule. So, this is where
in the MVC architecture, we will get
something called as a services folder.
In the services, we will have our actual
business logic. So, all of the setup
that we have done so far, whether it is
repository, entities, controllers, all
of them ultimately have to go through
our services, which is our protein of
this entire project. So, let's add a
certain class by the name of product
service. And in the product service, we
are going to handle all of it. So, let's
inject product service. Now, you see
I've used the word something called as
an inject. So, this is called as
dependency injection in Spring Boot. So,
this is something which we will explore
in our upcoming lessons. But for now,
understand that services file is where
you have written your actual business
logic. So, let's add our
private final product service.
And product service. Now that we have an
argument available with us, we need to
make sure we also pass the required
args constructor, so that all these
required values are passed in my
constructor creation. And all of this is
again done behind the scene by Lombok.
It will inject the necessary code. So,
I'm handing off all that boiler plate
code writing to the Lombok library. Now,
let's create this particular product
service. When I hover on this error,
there is an option where it says I can
create a class. But rather than that, I
will click on project. In my creator
store, I'm going to create a package by
the name of services. And in services,
I'm going to have my very first class of
product service. In our product service,
we have to create methods which are
similar to what we have originally seen
in my product controller, so that each
method has its supporting service method
available. So, convention that I follow
is I make sure I have the same method
names in my service level also. So, that
the controller whenever it is given
task, it will hand off that particular
task to the service. So, let's paste
this here and then we will remove things
which are not necessary for us, right?
So, we don't really need a request body
or something here. We're just going to
accept it and then we are going to
return the created product. Right? So,
put mapping is not necessary. We don't
really need the path variable. So,
anything that is related and specific to
the controller, right? So, that we can
basically remove in our services layer.
So, the get mapping and the path
variable, right? So, all these are very
much specific to our controller. So, we
don't really need them when it comes to
my service layer. So, you can see I have
created my bare-bones class where I have
all of my methods which will be called
by controller, right? So, for this
service file to be available, we need to
add certain annotations by the name of
@service
so that this particular service bean is
available to me while I'm working in my
controller, right? So, product service,
let me import that and then let's also
rename this as product service. Now, we
are all good. Now, let's complete our
controller properly and then we'll get
into the service layer. So, here we are
saying whenever I receive a create
product request, I'm going to use my
product service and then I'm going to
pass on this request to my service
layer. That is it. This is all the
method you need here. And in the same
way, let's get to the update product.
So, here we're going to say product
service.update product and then we're
handing off this task to the service
layer. So, in the same way I'm going to
have my product service.getproducts
and product service.getproductbyid
and then I'll pass my ID. In the delete
product, I will be following the same
convention where I'm going to say
product service dot delete product. Now
you see, the controller has only single
responsibility where it is actually
mapping the endpoints and it is handing
off its task to the service layer. So
the service layer is responsible for
doing all your business logic and it is
also responsible for talking to the
database when necessary. So let's visit
the product service and here we will try
to understand what we are trying to say.
Currently we got a request where they
are saying we have to create a product.
So how am I going to create my product?
I need to have some way where I can
communicate with my database. Oh, that
reminds me of something. I have
something by the name of repositories
and I also told this product repository
has some inbuilt cooked-in methods. So
why don't we reuse something which is
already available to us? So let's inject
product repository into our service.
Let's add private final product
repository and we need to make sure we
pass the argument. So required args
constructor and this product repository
is now available for us. So here what we
are going to say is product repository
dot save and then I'm going to pass this
particular entity. Now you see, the
request that the service got, it has
handed over to the repo sitory and the
repository has cooked-in methods via our
hibernate which is the ORM and our ORM
has all the implementations that are
necessary. So you don't really have to
write any create command, any insert
command and all of it will happen
automatically. So in the same way, let's
complete our rest of the methods that
are available to us in the product
service and then we will see a proper
demo of this. So, in my update product,
I need to firstly make sure whatever
product that I'm saying, "Hey, can you
update this?" Firstly, I need to check
if this particular product is actually
present or am I just blindly saying,
"Okay, go and update this." No, right? I
cannot have such a way of update. So, I
need to make sure once the product is
actually present, only then I'm going to
update it. So, let's add my particular
product uh here, and then let's look for
a product's existence. So, we are going
to say existing product, and then I'm
going to query my product repository,
and then I'm going to say, "Hey, can you
find something by a ID?" Then I'm going
to say, "Hey, whenever you find, you
return me the details, but let's say you
do not find, so return me an error." So,
I'm going to And let's say you really
don't find that in your database, we
need to throw some sort of error. So,
here we are going to say new runtime
exception, product not found with ID,
and then I'm just going to print this
ID. So, let's say you actually find an
existing product, and then there is no
runtime error that it is running into.
So, we can take the existing product and
then say, "Hey, let me set my name, let
me set the description, let me set the
category, let me set the price, also set
the stock quantity." So, I'm going to
say set stock quantity, and then get my
stock quantity. Here, you can see I'm
using certain setter methods and getter
methods. So, who is this actually
providing us? So, this is our Lombok
library, which is giving all of it just
out of the box. So, now that I have a
updated product with all the new
details, I need to make sure it is also
saved into the database, not just into
the memory. Right now, I just did it in
memory in my Java application only, but
I didn't inform to my database. So, for
that, I need to again query my
repository and then say, "Hey, can you
save this existing object with all the
details that I'm giving you?" When we
fetch this particular product
originally, so we have passed the ID and
then it really gave us that particular
product record. So, when we are going to
save it again, it is going to go look
for that, filter it out, and then going
to update with the new details. Now,
let's get into the get all products.
Now, here I'm going to say product
repository. dot
find all, and then automatically it is
going to give us in the data type that
we are requesting. After get products,
let's write our get products by ID. So,
here I'm again going to make use of
product repository, and then I'm going
to use a inbuilt method, which is find
by ID, and then I'm going to pass my ID.
But, there are chances that this ID is
not present in the database. In that
cases, what can you do? There are two
options. One is you return a optional
data type, and then you say, "Hey, I
didn't really find it." There are
chances that this information is present
or it is not present. Hence, the
optional. But, let's say you don't want
to have optional, but you can also
choose to throw a error. Uh let me
remove the extra semicolon, and you can
also have some sort of runtime exception
and handle that exception, where you're
saying, "Hey, this particular product is
not available with Now, in the delete
product, this is fairly simple. I just
have to use product repository.
delete by ID. Now, with that, we are
summing up the entire MVC flow for our
product entity. With that, we complete
the entire product flow. We have started
with the model creation. We've seen how
this will be created in the database.
We've set up a repository, which is
responsible for talking to the DB. We
have created a controller, where this
will be exposed to the client so that
the client can go request for a certain
information at a particular endpoint and
the controller following single
responsibility principle. It is going to
hand off its task to the service. Now
here in the service we are going to have
our business logic and whenever we want
to do some sort of persistence, then
only we are going to go request over
product repository and then going to
say, "Hey, can you save this? Can you
update this? Or can you delete this?" So
these are the operations which are given
to us just out of the box while we are
working with Spring Boot. Now in order
to test it, I'm going to take help of
Requestly which will act as our API
client. So before that, let's run our
application and then once it is up and
running, then we can get to the next
part. So we can see, yes, my application
is up and running and the DB connection
is done. So let me open my
um API client. So this is a Requestly a
totally new install. Let's create a new
collection in this and we will name it
as
creator store and under this store we
are going to have some requests. So I'm
going to add a request. This will be of
HTTP type. Here I'm going to start by
creating
create a new product. Now
uh let's collapse this and then we are
going to save this. Now in this, the
type of the HTTP method will be of post
and our URL will be HTTP {forward slash}
localhost 8080 which is the port on
which it is running. In our request
mapping, if you remember, we gave a API
path of {forward slash} API {forward
slash} products.
So products. Now in this, we need to
pass a request body which we were
originally accepting in our create
product method. So we will get to the
request body. In the raw, I'm going to
select JSON and then here we are going
to add the details. So, let's say I'm
going to add my detail of
uh t-shirt, right? So, t-shirt and then
I have a stock
quantity of 100. And let's say the price
of this is currently 199. And then I
have the description, which is optional.
So, this is not uh necessary. I have a
category and this gets into the apparel
section and let's run it and see does it
give us any error? Are we missing any
information? And then based on it, we
are going to see what to do next. Let's
click send and then you see, because my
description was optional, my rest of the
information using which I have passed in
my request body, it did create an object
for me and it returned but with the new
ID of one. And this ID is auto-generated
by database, so I don't really have to
do anything in this. After t-shirts, I
want to create few more products, so
let's use the same endpoint for this.
So, here I'm going to say stickers and
then stickers will be a little less
price and I'm going to take in more
quantity. Let's say 2,000 this time. And
then this is in the accessories
accessories category. Let's save this
and let's send. So, I have my another
product also ready. Now that I have
created the products, let's read and see
what all information I have so far
created. I'll click the press button and
then I'll say read all products. And
here I'm going to copy the same
endpoint. And in this, this will be a
get endpoint. So, in this I'm going to
click send. And in my response body, you
see I got a array, which is a list. And
in the list, I have the product objects.
This is exactly matching how I am
sending in my controller. Now, let's
create one more route. This will be for
getting individual product this time.
So, let's keep it in our creator store
collection. Let me duplicate this. And
this time in the copy, so let's say
get
>> [clears throat]
>> Here, get individual product. Right? So,
in this we are going to pass a path
variable this time. I'm going to send
the path variable of ID two. Now, we are
getting the individual object this time,
which is a product of stickers. So,
let's save this. Now, onto the next
operation. Say your product has started
becoming viral. Everybody started buying
stickers. Now, in order to do that, you
need to firstly increase the quantity
and then also increase the price because
you can make more revenue. So, let's say
update the product. Now, here in this
product, I'm going to update my product,
which is of two. Here, I'm going to
change the mapping to put. And in my
request body, I'm going to pass certain
details. So, this will be of JSON type.
And of course, in the stickers, this
will be of stickers. Let me add some
description. I'm going to say viral
product from Instagram. And then
accessories will be as it is. In my
price, I'm going to bump it up and then
I'm going to make it as 150. And in my
quantity, I'm going to make them as
9,000 this time. Right? So, I have a
very large quantity available so that it
meets the demand. Let me click send. And
right now, you see there is an updated
information that I received. I'm not
having the older information. Now, how
can I confirm this is the case? If I go
back to my get all products and click
send, so you see now we are reading the
latest details from the database. And
now, even if I close my back end
application and restart, the information
will still be persisted because all
these are coming from my database
server. So, let's also check that claim,
right? I'll stop the application and
then I'll restart. Then we will see are
these exactly working as expected. So,
let's restart this
so that we can check the claim that is
my DB actually persisting the
information or not. And then okay, now
that this is running, let's wait for the
DB connection. Okay, that is also done.
Now I'm back in my requestly, I'll click
send and then you should see yes. Now
I'm still getting my same information
and no information is deleted. Now, that
reminds me we have one more endpoint
which is to delete the details. Let's
say I duplicate this and then here I'm
going to say delete the product. Delete
product and then my HTTP method becomes
delete. Here I don't really have to send
any information, right? So, I'll save
this and then I'll click send. So, right
now my particular product, okay, by
mistake I have deleted product two, but
you understand the intention, right? So,
let's say when we are going to read the
product, I'm going to get only single
product now. And it has deleted the
product two which is the stickers and
then I'm left with only one product
which is the t-shirt. So, that is the
full CRUD operation on product. Now we
have few more entities which are left,
which is the order creation. So, now
that you have done all the listing and
everything, you also need to accept the
orders, right? So, let's look into that.
We understood that we are able to do all
the CRUD operations on the product, but
we haven't really accepted orders. So,
in order to do that, we have to firstly
create something called as a DTO layer.
So, having this DTO layer will make it
simple for us to accept orders because
when we get into our entities and look
in the order, here we currently have lot
of relations and lot of things in place,
but we don't want to capture our
relations while we are creating the
order. Rather actually send only the
information that is needed. So, we'll
keep the order open. We will create a
new package by the name of DTO. In our
DTO, we will have two classes again
related to our product, where we will
have minimal information only that is
needed, and we will exclude the ones
which are not necessary. So, let's start
with the very first one, which will be
order item request. And in this class,
we will specify the fields that are
needed for us. So, we would firstly need
getters and setters so that for these
fields whenever the time comes, the
application will automatically do the
operation. And then apart from that, we
need the no args constructor and all
args constructor, and of course our
builder pattern. Now, in the order item
request, I'm going to accept firstly the
private string product ID, so that I
know this particular order item is of
which product we are talking. And after
that, we are going to have one more
product integer quantity, so that you
know this particular order item has
different quantity in this. Now, we have
added annotations at the class level.
What you know, right? What to do next?
We are going to add the annotations to
the field level. So, let's add that. In
the product, I will have something
called as not null, and then I'm going
to say a message that product ID is
required. And for the quantity, we will
have again similar not null, and then
I'm going to say quantity
is required. Now, when it comes to the
quantity, there is one more check that I
want to keep. I need a minimum value of
at least one quantity should be present
while you're placing the order, and then
the same validation message of
quantity must be
greater than one. Right? So, this is the
order item. In fact, this is basically
representing a simplified version of
order item class. And why exactly do we
need this? So that when the user is
making request, they're going to just
pass the order item request inside the
bigger order object. Now, let's create
the order request as well. So, we'll
create order request and then the class
will be ready for us. Now, in the order
request class, you know the drill
already. We need to add our getters,
setters, no args constructor, all args
constructor, and the builder design
pattern. Now, with that we are done with
all this, let's add the fields which are
only necessary while we accept orders.
So, of obviously, you will have some
customer information. So, let's add
private string customer name, private
string customer email, and then along
with that, we will also have private
list of order item request and then the
items here. So, let me import the Java
list. So, we have the necessary
attributes and then now we are left with
the validations to be added on this. So,
we cannot have a blank name. So, we will
have a message that customer name is
required. So, in a similar way, we will
have a not blank for the email as well.
And then we will say message customer
email is required. And we will have a
validation of email so that they're
actually sending a formatted email. So,
message is
enter a valid email. And on the order
items, because this in itself has
validation, so I'm going to add at the
rate valid and then I'm going to say not
empty. I need minimum one item in this.
So, order must So, order must contain
at least one item. So, this will sum up
our DTO layer now, which makes us easy
to accept orders without any relations
to come in place. So, in my entities
where I have my order, I need to make
sure I also have back referencing. So, I
need to say JSON manage reference and
then here the cascade will be cascade
type cascade
type dot all. And in our order item,
where we have a relation for this
particular order, I need to also mention
the at the rate JSON back reference. In
the order item request, I want to make
small tweaks. I want to make sure this
particular product ID is of long data
type and the quantity is messages.
Quantity must be at least one. So, this
is a more clear messaging than the one
which is before.
Right? So, let's comment this and then
now we'll get into our service layer.
So, in the service layer, I believe we
know what to do. And in our order
service, this is where our entire
application comes together. Here we are
going to make use of two particular
services. One is the private order
repository. Let's add order repository.
And then, of course, we have our private
product repository so that I can deal
with my products. And so, here we need
to make sure this particular class has
all the necessary annotations of service
layer by mentioning at the rate service
and then required args constructor so
that so that these two fields are
injected via the constructor. In our
order service, let's add the method
which will help us to create orders. So,
I'm going to say public order
create order and then I'm going to
accept information in order
request which we have created as a DTO
layer where we have only the necessary
fields. So, let's add that. And here let
me import the order class also. And once
we have that, here I'm going to return
null for now. And we will write the
business logic that is necessary for
this. So, our order creation has to be
transactional and this will come from
the Jakarta persistence API. And why
exactly did we add transaction here?
Because when we are placing an order, we
are making sure this creates a new
record in the order table. We have a
linking in the order item, and there is
a update to the stock in our products
table also. So, for all of these
sequence of events, which is more than
one SQL statement to run, we usually
group them all into one single
transaction, so that if anything goes
wrong, there is a proper rollback. And
if everything is good, we will do a
proper commit for that transaction. So,
let's get into the logic of creating
order. So, here I see I'm going to
return a order object as my data type.
So, let's create an order object, and
then for now, let me just return this
order, right? So, this much we we all
know. Now, from our order object, let's
set some properties which we are getting
from our order request, right? So, let's
say order.set
customer name, and then we are going to
say order request.get customer name. In
the same way, order.set customer email
ID, we're getting it from the email ID
which we have supplied in the DTO. And
we will update the order status. We will
say order.set
status, and then I'm going to say
confirmed. So, now that I have my base
order object ready with me, there is
little more logic. This is very fairly
simple. We are getting some products in
the request. So, we need to go and check
in our products table, is the stock
available? If it is available, then we
need to add it into our total price, and
we need to make sure there is a record
for it. So, for that, we need to iterate
over the items that we are receiving as
a request in the order request. So, for
order request.get
items, I'm going to iterate on each and
every particular item value. So, I'm
going to say this is a
order item request, and then item
request, which will be used to iterate
on this entire list and then I'm going
to do some particular logic here. So
firstly, I want to see is my product
really existing. So in my product
repository and then I'm going to go and
find this particular item by ID where
I'm going to say the item that you're
requesting, I'm going to get the product
for it and then I'm going to look for
it. If this particular product is
present, I'm going to return it. If not,
I will be So I'm going to throw error.
So I'm going to say new runtime product
not found with ID and then here let's
specify the item request. Get product ID
so that we know what we are returning
exactly. So let's say the product is
available in the database. We also have
to check in our stock. It is not
necessary that it is in stock. So we
need to add a layer for checking that.
So check the product stock. In order to
check the product stock availability,
let's write the logic. So we are going
to say, "Hey product, in this, can you
get me the current stock quantity and
based on this, I'm going to check it
against what items the user has
requested?" So I'm going to get the
quantity and let's say the user is
requesting something which is more than
the stock, then we need to throw error,
right? So this is what exactly we'll do
here. So here we're going to say throw
new runtime exception and then we we are
going to here we're going to say not
enough stock for this particular
product. And we will proceed to the next
step. So we have our basic checks in
place. Now, we need to calculate the
total price for all the items that the
user is requesting. So we will write the
logic for that. So we will say calculate
total.
Now in order to calculate the total
price, we need to maintain some sort of
global variable where we will have our
big decimal. We will say big
decimal.total price and then big
decimal. Let's start with the zero.
While I'm calculating, I'm going to say
total
total price dot add and then I'm going
to add certain price here.
price of item
So here, each price of item is
calculated based on how much quantity it
is requested and what is the current
price of that particular product.
They're going to say big decimal price
of item equals to product dot get my
current price and I'm going to multiply
it with big decimal dot
value of
item requested dot get quantity. So
basically, I am multiplying it by the
quantity of its current price so that I
will get my total price and this keeps
adding up in this entire for loop. Once
I have my total price calculated, I need
to update the product table
with latest stock quantity.
Now that we have the total price in
place, we need to make sure our stock is
also updated. So let's do that. So we
have our product dot set stock quantity
and here I'm going to get my product dot
get current stock and here don't follow
AI. So it is giving me the wrong code
already. So I'll get the current stock
and I'm going to reduce by what the user
has requested so that we will have the
latest information. So let's say I have
originally 100, user has requested for
50 items. I'm going to remove the 50 and
then update it with the ones which are
remaining. Now into our product
repository, now that we have this, we
can save our product and then we are
going to do our final calculation of
total order items. Builder pattern to
make object. So which object are we
making? I'm going to make the order item
order item dot builder. So we don't have
to use the new keyword in this. Rather,
we are going with the builder pattern
and then I'm going to say
{dot} order and then I'm going to give
it the order object which we have worked
on and I will be saying {dot} product
and then this is the product which I'm
purchasing and then in the quantity
quantity the user has requested me
{dot} get quantity and in my price at
purchase I have my product
product {dot} get price. And using all
this I'm going to build my order item
which will stand in the junction table
which we originally discussed. It will
have all this information. It will make
sure it has all the one-to-many and
many-to-one relations whichever is
needed. So we have done all those. Now
we are just looking on the business
logic. Now that we have our order item
we need to make sure we save all this in
some way and then we return it to the
user. So I'm going to say order items
{dot} add order item. But where is this
order item present? We need to create a
list for that. So here let's create a
list temporary list which will store our
information and this will not be get
items. We will say new array list. This
is a simple array on which we are adding
our details. Now once we are done with
the iteration we need to also update our
order object in itself. So I'm going to
say order {dot} set order items and then
I've used the temporary list which we
have created and then let me also set
the price for it. So I'm going to say
order {dot} set total price and then I'm
going to get my total price value which
I have computed it during this
particular iteration, right? Now that we
have seen our service let's create our
controller for this particular order
service. So in our controllers we will
have our new order controller and in
this file this is fairly simple. We have
seen it already. We have to add the rest
controller. We have to add a request
mapping and then here we are going to
have
{forward slash} API {slash} orders and
then we need to also give our required
arcs constructor so that we can inject
our private final order service. So
order service we have created, we need
to inject that also into our controller.
This is exactly where we are going. Hey,
let's have a public method which will
return order and then I'm going to
create an order for it. Create order and
in the request body I'm going to accept
something but before that let's import
our order.
So I've imported my order class in our
create order method let's accept the
request body. So we will send
information that is only required. So we
will be passing the order request order
request and then I need to make sure our
validations are in place. So I will say
at the rate valid and now by just using
the order service I'm going to say order
service.createorder
and then I just have to return this.
That is it. Now our controller is
handing off all the tasks to the service
layer which is doing the transactional
operations. So firstly we will start our
application and going to my main class.
This is my creative store application.
Let me run this and once it is connected
to the DB we will get into our request.
In request there are various products
which we already saw. Let's add one more
request. This is for create order and
then this will of course be a post route
and this will be a HTTP localhost
80 80/api/orders.
So here I need to pass some information
so that my order is placed. So let's go
for that. So I'm going to say customer
name I'm going to say Anirudh and my
customer email
I'm going to have anirudh@gmail.com.
After email let's add some items to the
cart and then here I'm going to say this
will this will be a list and in each
list I'm going to have my product ID and
product ID will be one because I have
product ID one when I go to get all
products. So, let's say here I'm
fetching all the products. So, what all
do we have? We have t-shirt with the ID
of one. So, let me go there. Here I have
my
uh create order in my request body. So,
I'm also going to mention I want uh five
t-shirts for this particular order. So,
I'm going to mention this. Let me add a
comma and then we are good with the
request body. Let's correct the request
body first and then we are uh
good to try this out. Let's click send.
Okay, now the request body is still
correct, but there is some sort of
error. Let's debug that. Okay. Okay, so
right now we are in our order service
and based on this error, let's try to
see what is missing. Okay, one thing
which I can immediately see here for our
private variables, we don't have the
final one. And okay, we can also see the
order repository is not used. Okay, so
where can it be possibly be present?
Okay, okay. Oh, right now here we see we
are just returning the order object
itself. That is wrong. Here we need to
use the order repository and save the
order. So, that will return us an order
object in itself, right? So, that is the
issue. Let's restart this and then we
should be good to create the order in
Requestly. So, these sort of errors are
very common, right? So, that you know
this is how debugging is actually done.
Let's get into Requestly and then we
will see
we will see the creation of it now. It
has taken time and then it did return me
the details. We have our order. We have
our customer information. We have the
status. We have the total price which is
dynamically calculated based on the
quantity. And then it is also telling
which order items does it have and what
all product is it related to. And we
also have our created at time. So, at
this time this particular product has
been placed. So, I'll give you two
assignments. Make sure you complete
them. Take a screenshot of the
completion and then post it on social
media. So, the very first one which we
want is get all orders and then we want
one more which is get order by ID. So,
we have seen that every order has a
particular ID. So, let's say I want to
get this particular order by its ID. So,
let's say somebody's looking for the
tracking status of an order. So, this is
very fairly
commonly asked. So, here I'm going to
add some particular methods for you. So,
we will have list of orders and then get
orders. I'm going to have a to-do here
where I will say
to be implemented
and then I'm going to return null for
now. So,
this will be a take-home assignment for
you. In the same way, let's add one more
method for the get order by ID. So, this
will not return a list, rather this will
return a single order. You know that
what to do. We have to get into our
service layer. We need to write the
supporting methods for this. Once we
have the supporting methods, we just
wire it up here and then we are good to
test it on requestly. So, one aspect of
this entire back-end application that is
still pending is our Swagger
documentation. We have installed that
originally while we are creating our
project in the pom.xml,
but we haven't yet used it. So, let's
see how to do the setup of the Swagger.
Before that, let's commit our changes
which are related to the order order
module completed.
The very first location from where I
would like to start is in my pom.xml.
Here we have one dependency which is
helping us in the documentation. If we
search for Spring Doc, you can see we
have added one dependency which is the
open API specification.
Now, let's run the application and see
when we visit the Swagger documentation
URL, does it actually give us anything
or is it empty for now? Our application
is up and running. Let's visit the
Swagger docs. So, this is the URL for
Swagger on localhost 8080 it is
currently running and we have a swagger
UI forward slash index.html.
So, this is the location where we are
able to find our Swagger documentation.
You can see this is nicely kept in the
dark mode and here we have two
controllers which are listed. As I said
before, controllers are something which
are client-facing and here we are
getting list of all our CRUD operations.
So, we can look up for some information.
Let's say I had my t-shirt, right? So,
let's say I'm looking for that. So, I'm
entering my ID one. If I execute it, I
should be getting my t-shirt as the
response. So, you can see I got a status
code of 200 and this t-shirt details. In
the same way, when we want to set up our
order controller, we can come here,
click on the try it out and then here we
are getting an example request body
where you don't have to really guess. In
case of requests or Postman or any other
API client, you have to be aware of the
format. But because we have this
dependency which is intelligent enough
based on which request body, which path
variable you're accepting, it is asking
you to fill that up in your form. So,
let's say you have your put endpoint.
When I click on try it out, because I
have my path variable as well as the
request body, you can see it is clearly
asking me to enter the ID value followed
by the request body. So, this is the
flexibility and convenience we get with
Swagger documentation and we as back-end
developers we hand over this particular
Swagger documentation to the front-end
guys and they will test out our APIs.
With that, we come to the end of the
video. If you enjoyed this, make sure
you drop a like, comment and also
subscribe to the channel and we'll see
you in the next one.