Hey there everyone.
My name is Hitesh and I make coding
videos just like the one you're watching here.
So in case you are new here, go
ahead and subscribe the channel and let's continue
our series of building the SaaS.
So in the last video we did a whole
lot of work in just setting up the middleware.
So in this video we'll take a small
detour and we'll make sure that the login
and signup process is comparatively easy.
We definitely will come back onto the login
and sign up so that I can walk
you through with the customization of it.
But right now with this SAS, the focus is more on
utilizing the power of the cloud nary and the AI and
how to build the whole structure, not just with the auth.
So we'll take a small easiest step with this one.
But again, there's going to be no
change at all in this one.
So let me just share the screen and
how we're going to do with this one.
So let's just close everything up here.
We can go on to the clerk and we can see in the
clerk we have built your own sign in and sign up pages.
It's not customized signup, but it definitely works
the way how they want it to work.
And all you can do is you can come here
and just create a route like this which is signup
slash and this page TSX and just have to add
this and this automatically works everything just like the magic.
So let me just go ahead and set this one up.
Now in order to set this up, what we're
going to do is we're going to have this
app so everything goes inside the app.
I'll just right click on this, create a
new folder and I'll use the parentheses.
When you use parentheses, this route is not being fetched
on the next j's it just grouping of the routes.
So I'm going to call this one as auth
so that I know exactly that all of my
routes and folders and everything is inside that.
Now I can go back and create an app which is sign
up and then this whole page tsx I need to make.
So I'll just copy this and we'll try to create
a new file and we'll paste it up there.
Hopefully this will create the
folders and structure for me.
And yes it does.
And yes it does just exactly they want.
So this is a catch all route in which all of
the routes are being cached for the signup related process.
And now you can just go ahead and
copy the code and paste it up here.
So that's it.
You can borrow this signup component from the clerk
next js and it just loads that up automatically.
We'll come back onto this one in this because
we have to make a slight modification since we
have taken the detour which is sign dash up.
But no worries, we can just fix that up
and we'll need one more similar with folder, this
one which is sign in and this page TSX.
So again, copy this and let's go ahead
inside the auth and create a new file.
And let's just paste this one. And there we go.
So now we have sign up and sign in.
Sign in borrows the sign in
component, copy and paste this.
And there we go.
So the route that it creates is
sign dash in and sign dash up.
And the easy thing for us is I can
go into the middleware and can say this is
sign dash in and this is sign dash up.
And the advantage of this, not scattered around
everywhere is I can just make a couple
of changes here and just work with that.
So this one can be simply sign dash in, sign dash in.
And I think that's it. That's it. That is it.
All it takes.
We can come back here and can
make our own routes in this one.
Probably I'll share that as well.
But I think this is all that is required.
Let's read more of the documentation part of it.
Now we have to update the environment variables.
Environment variable, definitely need this sign
up and sign in URL.
So we'll just copy this and
we'll just create the new files.
And again, this file is env local.
So I'll talk about these later on.
Right now we just create this one.
Oh, we already have env local in which we
can just go ahead and copy paste this.
This is publishable key.
But this time we'll say that hey, this is our routes.
All the things are up here.
All right, what else do you need?
We have the API keys.
We don't have the API keys.
So let's go back here.
These are the keys.
So let's just go ahead and copy
this and we'll paste them up here.
We'll anyways delete these keys.
So that's going to be useful much for you.
Anyways, you can just go ahead and have your own keys.
That's it I guess.
And we can have the users up here.
We probably have some users from
the old past of these ones.
So we can just delete this user and now
in the users and authentication you can just check
for email, whatever you need email you need phone
number, you need usernames, password, email verification code.
You want to get that you want
to allow user for social connection.
I guess one is by default
allowed Google which is shared credential.
But hey, it works, it works.
So let's just go ahead and try to see
that whether it works or it doesn't work.
So we're going to go ahead and say NPm
run dev and we can just go ahead.
Environment is loading is env local.
I really like this message.
It makes it very clear that which environment variable
I'm actually loading up which one is in the
present and working in a production grid application.
There are many such applications.
So this is the home route and this is okay.
Now let's just say if I go ahead and
see home is not going to be working.
We don't have that.
Let's try dash sign in.
If I go ahead and sign in, it doesn't
look really that well because we haven't customized it.
But yeah it is there it works.
We can probably customize it a little bit.
This one was sign in.
We'll work on the sign up as well.
So auth sign up and page.
We probably can align it center and we
can probably have a layout as well.
What do you want how this should be worked?
Probably we should talk about this later on.
Right now let's focus on the functionality part.
So now we have this.
Now we need couple of more routes to
actually verify whether things are going good or
not good or how they are working.
Let's close this and create another of
this folder which is collection folder.
I'm going to call this one as app because whole of
my rest of the app is going to be up here.
And we can just go ahead and
create couple of routes up here.
The first one, let's go ahead and create a home.
So we're going to just open this up.
Right click new folder.
And we're going to call this one as home.
This is my home route.
Now in each of these routes that you create in
next js you need to have a page TSX.
And we'll be just saying home.
There nothing else as of now.
Right click new file and we're going to
call this one as page dot TSX.
Now TSX is good and we can just go ahead
and say Rfce, I don't have that extension so let
me just go ahead and quickly grab that extension.
Alright, so here is the extension es seven.
I think this is the one that I've been using
so I can just go ahead and open this up.
Install should be okay without reloading the application and
I can just go ahead and hit the tab
that I want a view of the explorer again.
So let's go there.
And now probably I can say
Rfce react functional export page.
Let's call this one as home.
Home is good enough and we'll just go like that.
All right, so at least we have a homepage.
We don't have much saying in this, but let's just say
if we have more of these pages like social share, so
we can just right click and create a new folder.
We're going to call this one as social dash share.
Inside that we need a page TSX and let's just say rFCe.
There we go.
This one is going to be social share.
There we go.
Now the thing is, how much of
these pages are we able to access?
Sign in is good enough and we
should be able to access the home.
There we go.
And what about social share?
It's redirecting me to the sign in.
So our middleware is working fine.
We definitely will come back here and
I'll walk you through how you can
have a customized solution like this one.
This is surely doable.
We did it up here, I'll walk you
through but I think this will actually detour
us from too much in the UI part.
I wanted to focus more on the functionality part first.
So there we go.
Now let's go ahead and try login.
I'll probably log in with my existing email
and unable to complete action on time.
This problem persists.
Please contact support looks like the issue is here.
So all the issue is probably up here.
Probably I don't have proper all right, so let me go
ahead into user oh, this is sign in I guess.
Yep, this is sign in.
I should be in the sign up.
Alright, so this is sign up.
Let's try with the google and this should be sign up.
So already it logs in with my existing browser wherever
I'm logged in with the google and now I'm able
to access home and if I go ahead and try
a social share I'm able to access the social share.
So at least the UI part and what
all needed for this authentication is all done.
I can focus now on functionality part and we have
something on the pages so let's just go ahead since
we are already here in the auth part.
Let's just create one more couple of more
files and we'll just sort this out.
We have one more route in this
one, let's create a new folder.
This one is going to be video upload, video upload.
And again page tsX.
I can do it much faster with the keyboard,
but I'll still do it with the mouse.
Video upload. There we go.
So we have three routes at least.
And later on probably we can create a layout so that
it looks good but doesn't really matter in the route.
We can just check what's happening, what's
not happening and all of that.
Again, super happy with what is
the progress that we have made.
All right, what next?
We have now in the next video we can just close
all of this and we can create one more folder here
which can be API and can focus more on the API
part first because that's where the majority of things happen.
That's where majority of the cloud nary talks happen.
So let's just right click on this one, create
a new folder on the API and that's it.
So what we can do now, now in the next video,
what we can do is we can focus more on the
API understandability of how do we take a file upload and
send it to the cloudinary and get response back, how do
we send the video get to them and how we get
the response back, how that all the things happen.
So that is going to be taken care of in
the API part in itself and the home API as
well, in which we just make a query that how
many videos you have, we return that videos back.
We also need to set up the prisma as
well so that without the Prisma we cannot upload
the videos because we need to take care that
who is the user who's uploading the videos.
So that also need to be taken care of.
We'll see what we are going to pick up in the
next video, either the prisma or the API route of this.
So both are equally good.
You'll be enjoying both of them.
That's it for this video.
Let's catch up in the next one.